CllgCO COLORADO SCHOOL OF MINES 846000551 06/19/97 0015 




                     NEGOTIATION AGREEMENT
                                


INSTITUTION:  COLORADO SCHOOL OF MINES
                   GOLDEN, COLORADO  80401

The Facility and Administrative cost and Fringe Benefit rates contained 
herein are for use on grants, contracts and/or other agreements issued 
or awarded to the Colorado School of Mines by all Federal Agencies of 
the United States of America, in accordance with the provisions and 
cost principles mandated by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) 
Circular A-21.  These rates shall be used for forward pricing and 
billing purposes at the Colorado School of Mines for the period(s) indicated 
below.  This rate agreement supersedes all previous rate agreements or
determinations beginning with Fiscal Year 1997.



SECTION I:  RATES - TYPE: PREDETERMINED (PRED) AND FIXED



Facilities and Administrative Rates (Indirect Cost):
          Effective Period   On Campus Off Campus                
Type    From      To        Rate     Rate    Base    Applicable To          
Pred    7/1/96    6/30/97   49.3%    27.0%   (a)     Organized Research

Pred    7/1/96    6/30/97   25.0%    25.0%   (a)     Other Sponsored 
                                                     Activities

Fringe Benefits Rates:
Type    From      To        Rate   Base Applicable To        Location
Fixed   7/1/96    6/30/97   21.5%  (b)  Administrative and   All
                                        Academic Faculty

Fixed   7/1/96    6/30/97   23.5%  (b)  Research Faculty     All
                              
Fixed   7/1/96    6/30/97   13.0%  (b)  Temporary Faculty &  All
                                        Full Time Temporary 
                                        Classified

Fixed   7/1/96    6/30/97   20.5%  (c)  Full/Part Time       All
                                        Permanent Classified 
                                        and Part Time 
                                        Temporary Classified


                        DISTRIBUTION BASE:

(a)  Modified Total Direct Cost (MTDC), as defined in OMB Circular A-21, 
consisting of all salaries and wages, fringe benefits, materials and 
supplies, services, travel and subgrants and subcontracts up to the 
first $25,000 of each subgrant or subcontract (regardless of the period
covered by the subgrant or subcontract).  Equipment (defined as having 
a useful life of more than one year and an acquisition cost which 
equals or exceeds $500), capital expenditures, charges for patient 
care and tuition remission, rental costs, scholarships, and 
fellowships as well as the portion of each subgrant and subcontract 
in excess of $25,000 shall be excluded.

(b)  Faculty salaries and wages.

(c)  Classified (Administrative) salaries and wages.




SECTION II - GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS



A.  LIMITATIONS:  Use of the rates set forth under Section I is subject 
to any statutory or administrative limitations and is applicable to a 
given grant, contract or other agreement only to the extent that funds 
are available and consistent with any and all limitations of cost 
clauses or provisions, if any, contained therein.  Acceptance of the 
rates agreed to herein is predicated upon all the following 
conditions: (1) that no costs other than those incurred by the 
grantee/contractor were included in the indirect cost pool as finally 
accepted and that all such costs are legal obligations of the 
grantee/contractor and allowable under governing  cost principles; 
(2) that the same costs that have been treated as indirect costs are 
not claimed as direct costs; (3) that similar types of costs 
have been accorded consistent accounting treatment; and (4) that the 
information provided by the contractor/grantee, which was used as 
the basis for the acceptance of the rates agreed to herein and 
expressly relied upon by the Government in negotiating and 
accepting the said rates, is not subsequently found to be 
materially incomplete or inaccurate.

B.  ACCOUNTING CHANGES: The rates contained in Section I of this 
agreement are based on the accounting system in effect at the time this 
agreement was established.  Changes to the method(s) of accounting for 
costs which affects the amount of reimbursement resulting from the 
use of these rates require the written approval of the authorized 
representative of the cognizant negotiating agency for the Government 
prior to implementation of any such changes.  Such changes include but 
are not limited to changes in the charging of a particular type of cost 
from indirect to direct.  Failure to obtain such approval may result in 
subsequent cost disallowances.

C.   PREDETERMINED RATES: The predetermined rates contained in this 
agreement are not subject to adjustment in accordance with the 
provisions of OMB Circular A-21, subject to the limitations contained 
in Part A of this section.

D.  FIXED RATES: The fixed rates in this agreement are based on 
estimates of the costs for FY 1997.  When actual costs for this 
period are determined, an adjustment will be made to the rates 
of a future year to recognize for the difference between the 
FY 1997 estimated costs used to establish the fixed rates and 
the negotiated actual FY 1997 costs.

E.  USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES:  The rates set forth in Section I 
hereof were established in accordance with and under the authority 
set forth in OMB Circular A-21.  Accordingly, such rates shall be 
applied to the extent provided in such circular to grants, contracts 
and other agreements to which OMB Circular A-21 is applicable, 
subject to any limitations in part A of this section.  Copies 
of this document may be provided by either party to other Federal 
agencies which have or intend to issue or award agreements using 
these rates, or to otherwise provide such agencies with documentary 
notice of this determination and its terms and conditions. 

F.  APPLICATION OF INDIRECT COST RATES TO DoD CONTRACTS /
SUBCONTRACTS:  Signature of this agreement by the authorized 
representative of the Colorado School of Mines and the 
Government, acknowledges and affirms the Institution's
verbal request for waiver of the prohibition contained in 
DFARS 231.303(1) and the Government's exercise of its 
discretion under DFARS 231.303(2) to waive the prohibition 
in DFARS 231.303(1) for the facility and administration 
cost rates cited in Section I.

G.  SPECIAL REMARKS:  The Government's establishment of these rates is 
not an acceptance of the Colorado School of Mines' accounting system, 
cost classifications, allocation methodologies or cost analysis 
studies.

Accepted:

FOR THE INSTITUTION:                         FOR THE GOVERNMENT:


                                                       /s/                                                                         /s/
ROBERT MOORE                                 DEBORAH K. RAFI          
Vice President for Business Affairs          Contracting Officer      
                                  
                                                                     
Date June 18, 1997                           Date June 19, 1997

For information concerning this document contact:

OFFICE OF NAVAL RESEARCH, INDIRECT COSTS/ONR 242
DEBORAH K. RAFI, 
800 N. QUINCY STREET, ARLINGTON, VA 22217
PHONE: (703) 696-5641
EMAIL: rafid@onrhq.onr.navy.mil
