CllgIL University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign 37600511 07/14/95 0008


                                                                                                                                                            

                     NEGOTIATION AGREEMENT
              FY 1996 - 1999 PREDETERMINED RATES 
                                                                                                                                                             
 
INSTITUTION:   UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN
               CHAMPAIGN, ILLINOIS 61820-6242

The indirect cost and tuition remission rates contained herein are for use on grants, contracts
and/or other agreements issued or awarded to the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
(UIUC) by all Federal Agencies of the United States of America, in accordance with the cost
principles mandated by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-21 and in
accordance with OMB Circular A-88.  These rates shall be used for forward pricing and billing
purposes at UIUC for the period(s) indicated under Section I below.  This rate agreement
supersedes the previous provisional rate agreement for FY 1996 - 1999. 

                                                                                                                                                            

SECTION I:  RATES - TYPE: PREDETERMINED (PRED)

                                                                                                                                                            

         Effective Period       On-Campus      Off-Campus                
Type     From          To            Rates                Rates       Base   Applicable Function              
Indirect Cost Rates
Pred          7/1/95     6/30/99          51.9%        24.0%      (a)     Sponsored Instruction

Pred          7/1/95     6/30/99          55.5%        24.0%      (a)     Organized Research

Pred          7/1/95     6/30/99          30.9%        10.7%      (a)     Materials Research Lab(MRL)

Pred          7/1/95     6/30/99          23.7%        18.7%      (a)     Other Sponsored Activities 

Pred          7/1/95     6/30/99            8.0%         8.0%     (a)     Campus Service Facilities 

Tuition Remission Rates
Pred          7/1/95     6/30/99          71.7%        71.7%      (b)     Sponsored Instruction 

Pred          7/1/95     6/30/99          47.0%        47.0%      (b)     Research, including MRL
 
Pred          7/1/95     6/30/99          65.6%        65.6%      (b)     Other Sponsored Activities 


                        DISTRIBUTION BASE:

     (a)  Modified Total Direct Cost (MTDC), as defined in OMB Circular A-21,
consisting of all salaries and wages, fringe benefits, materials and supplies, services, travel, and
subgrants and subcontracts up to the first $25,000 each (regardless of the period covered by the
subgrant or subcontract); and excluding equipment (defined as having a useful life of more than
one year and an acquisition cost of $5,000 or more per unit), capital expenditures, charges for
patient care and tuition remission, rental costs, scholarships and fellowships as well as the
portion of each subgrant and subcontract in excess of $25,000. 

     (b)  Salaries and wages of graduate assistants with tuition waivers (for purpose of
assessing tuition waivers). 

                                                                                                                                                             

SECTION II - GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS

                                                                                                                                                            

A.   LIMITATIONS:  Use of the rates set forth under Section I is subject to any statutory or
administrative limitations, and is applicable to a given grant, contract or other agreement only to
the extent that funds are available and consistent with any and all limitations of cost clauses or
provisions, if any, contained therein.  Acceptance of the rates agreed to herein is predicated upon
all the following conditions: (1) that no costs other than those incurred by the grantee/contractor
or on behalf of the grantee/contractor by the State of Illinois were included in the indirect cost
pool as finally accepted and that all such costs are legal obligations of the grantee/contractor and
allowable under governing  cost principles; (2) that the same costs that have been treated as
indirect costs are not claimed as direct costs; (3) that similar types of costs have been accorded
consistent accounting treatment; and (4) that the information provided by the contractor/grantee,
which was used as the basis for the acceptance of the rates agreed to herein and expressly relied
upon by the Government in negotiating and accepting the said rates is not subsequently found to
be materially incomplete or inaccurate.

B.   ACCOUNTING CHANGES:  The rates contained in Section I of this agreement are
based on the accounting system in effect at the time this agreement was negotiated. Changes to
the method(s) of accounting for costs which affects the amount of reimbursement resulting from
the use of these rates require the written approval of the authorized representative of the
cognizant negotiating agency for the Government prior to implementation of any such changes. 
Such changes include but are not limited to changes in the charging of a particular type of cost 


from indirect to direct.  Failure to obtain such approval may result in subsequent cost
disallowances.

C.   PREDETERMINED RATES: This type of rate is considered final and not subject to
adjustment in accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-21 and the Federal Acquisition
Regulation, subject to the limitations contained in Part A of this section.

D.   SPECIAL REMARKS:

     1.   Major Cost Elements Treated as Indirect Costs:  For the purpose of the rates set
forth herein, the following major cost elements are and have been treated as indirect:

          a.   (1)  Use charges for equipment, building and improvements, and
interest on buildings;

               (2)  Write-off of all unamortized equipment cost between $500 and
$4,999 with a useful life of more than one year, as a result of UIUC changing their capitalization
threshold amount from $500 to $5,000;

          b.   Operation and maintenance of physical plant;

          c.   Departmental and college administration;

          d.   Sponsored project administration;

          e.   General Administration and general expense;

          f.   Library expenses;

          g.   Applicable student services;

          h.   Environmental health and safety;

          i.   Departmental-faculty support administration.

     2.   Major Cost Elements treated as Direct Costs:  For the purpose of the rates set
forth herein, the following major cost elements, if applicable, are and have been treated as direct:

          a.   Direct salaries and wages;


          b.   Consultant services;

          c.   Special equipment;

          d.   Travel;

          e.   Employee benefits;

          f.   Materials and Supplies (which includes equipment having a useful life of
one year or less and/or an acquisition cost of less than $5,000);

          g.   Services;

          h.   Publication; and/or

          i.   Communications.

     3.   MTDC:  Modified total direct costs are the total direct costs excluding the
following:

          a.   Subgrant and subcontract costs in excess of the first $25,000 per award; 
          
          b.   The costs of items of purchased equipment with an estimated life of more
than one year and an acquisition cost of $5,000.00 or more per unit, including lease-purchase
agreements.  This definition includes the cost of component parts, materials and/or supplies used
to fabricate an item or piece of equipment when (1) the aggregate cost of the component parts,
materials and/or supplies is $5,000.00 or more in value and (2) the cost of fabrication is
documented and accounted for by the department.  This is in accordance with the waiver granted
by OMB, dated June 29, 1995, which authorizes increasing the equipment cost threshold for
capitalization from $500 to $5,000;

          c.   Capital expenditures;

          d.   Charges for patient care and tuition remission;

          e.   Rental costs; and/or

          f.   Scholarships and fellowships.



     4.   The rates contained in Section I of this agreement are in compliance with DFARS
231.303(1), since the institution has elected to use the alternate method for administrative costs. 

E.   APPLICATION OF RATES:

     1.   Application of the appropriate On-Campus or Off-Campus indirect rate(s) is to be
determined at the beginning of each sponsored agreement and is to be equitably adjusted if the
circumstances which determined the application change materially during the period of
performance. For this agreement, the term "sponsored agreement" includes grants, contracts or
other agreements permitted by regulation or law.

     2.   The On-Campus rate is to be assessed except when a portion of the sponsored
agreement is performed at an off-campus site. In such cases, certain costs normally considered as
indirect, such as rent or utility costs may be charged as direct costs to the particular sponsored
agreement.  The criteria for utilization of the off-campus rate consists of all of the following:

          a.   Performance at the off-campus site must be on a continuous basis;
intermittent performance is not sufficient;

          b.   The University personnel working or engaged on the project must be
physically located at an off-campus site; and

          c.   The off-campus performance must be of sufficient duration; normally a
full semester, summer term or the period of performance of the sponsored agreement. 

     3.   Off-campus costs may include costs incurred at the off-campus site for salaries,
related benefits, supplies, utility costs, rent, local travel and other similar costs which are treated
as direct.  Travel to and from an off-campus site is considered an off-campus cost.

     4.   The tuition remission rates are in state/out state.  Tuition of graduate assistants
second year non-resident assistants is considered in state.

F.   POTENTIAL UNALLOWABLE COSTS AND COST ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
(CAS) NONCOMPLIANCE(S): The Organized Research and MRL indirect cost rates set forth
under Section I hereof have been adjusted for potential unallowable costs and CAS
noncompliance(s) for $5,216,860 and $628,000, respectively, in each fiscal year (FY 1996 -
1999).  Accordingly, these adjustments will be used as an offset each fiscal year for the
Organized Research and MRL indirect cost rates for the period July 1, 1995 through June 30,
1999, if they are later found to have unallowable costs in accordance with OMB Circular A-21,
Section B.9.  In addition to an offset for potential unallowable costs, the adjustments will also be
used as an offset to potential CAS noncompliance(s) each fiscal year affecting the Organized
Research and MRL indirect cost rates for the period July 1, 1995 through June 30, 1999. 
Although the adjustments may be used interchangeably between potential unallowable costs and
CAS noncompliance(s), the aggregate shall not exceed the amount of adjustment available for
offset each fiscal year in Organized Research ($5,216,860) and MRL ($628,000).  Nor can any
unused offset amount from one fiscal year be carried forward to a subsequent fiscal year. 
Furthermore, the adjustment amount for Organized Research cannot be used for MRL or for any
other function.  The same applies for MRL.  

G.   USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES:  The rates set forth in Section I hereof were
negotiated in accordance with and under the authority set forth in OMB Circular A-88. 
Accordingly, such rates shall be applied to the extent provided in such circular to grants,
contracts and other agreements to which OMB Circular A-21 is applicable, subject to any
limitations in part A of this section. Copies of this document may be provided by either party to
other Federal agencies which have or intend to issue or award grants and contracts using these
rates or to otherwise provide such agencies with documentary notice of this agreement and its
terms and conditions.


THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE       THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA:
UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS:


                                                                                                                       
Craig S. Bazzani                        Andrew D. Holland
Comptroller and Authorized Representative         Contracting Officer
of the Board of Trustees

 March 28, 1996                                         March 29, 1996                            
Date                               Date



for information concerning this agreement contact:  OFFICE OF NAVAL RESEARCH,
ANDREW D. HOLLAND, INDIRECT COSTS/ONR 242, 800 N. QUINCY STREET,
ARLINGTON, VA  22217, PHONE:  (703) 696-4842, e-mail:  hollana@onrhq.onr.navy.mil