CllgIN University of Notre Dame 350868188 01/22/96 0006 


                                                                                                                                                            

                     NEGOTIATION AGREEMENT
              FY 1996 - 1997 PREDETERMINED RATES 
                                
                                                                                                                                                             
 

INSTITUTION:   UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME du LAC
               NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 46556

The indirect cost rates contained herein are for use on grants, contracts and/or other agreements
issued or awarded to the University of Notre Dame du Lac by all Federal Agencies of the United
States of America, in accordance with the cost principles mandated by the Office of Management
and Budget (OMB) Circular A-21 and in accordance with OMB Circular A-88.  These rates shall
be used for forward pricing and billing purposes at the University of Notre Dame du Lac for the
period(s) indicated under Section I below.  This rate agreement supersedes the previous
provisional rate agreement for FY 1996. 

                                                                                                                                                            

SECTION I:  RATES - TYPE: PREDETERMINED (PRED)

                                                                                                                                                            

         Effective Period       On-Campus      Off-Campus                
Type     From          To            Rates                Rates         Base     Applicable Function              
  
Pred          7/1/95     6/30/97          48.9%           10.5%      (a)     All Organized Research,                                               except Radiation Laboratory

Pred          7/1/95     6/30/97          42.9%             7.8%     (a)     Instruction

Pred          7/1/95     6/30/97          22.1%           10.7%      (a)     Other Sponsored Activites              
Pred          7/1/95     6/30/97          19.2%             N/A      (a)     Radiation Laboratory                                             Organized Research

                        DISTRIBUTION BASE:

     (a)  Modified Total Direct Cost (MTDC), as defined in OMB Circular A-21,
consisting of all salaries and wages, fringe benefits, materials and supplies, services, travel and
subgrants and subcontracts up to the first $25,000 of each subgrant or subcontract (regardless of
the period covered by the subgrant or subcontract).  Equipment (defined as having a useful life of
more than one year, and an acquisition cost of more than $100 per unit), capital expenditures,
charges for patient care and tuition remission, rental costs, scholarships, and fellowships as well
as the portion of each subgrant and subcontract in excess of $25,000 is excluded.

                                                                                                                                                             

SECTION II - GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS

                                                                                                                                                            

A.   LIMITATIONS:  Use of the rates set forth under Section I is subject to any statutory or
administrative limitations, and is applicable to a given grant, contract or other agreement only to
the extent that funds are available and consistent with any and all limitations of cost clauses or
provisions, if any, contained therein.  Acceptance of the rates agreed to herein is predicated upon
all the following conditions: (1) that no costs other than those incurred by the grantee/contractor
were included in the indirect cost pool as finally accepted and that all such costs are legal
obligations of the grantee/contractor and allowable under governing  cost principles; (2) that the
same costs that have been treated as indirect costs are not claimed as direct costs; (3) that similar
types of costs have been accorded consistent accounting treatment; and (4) that the information
provided by the contractor/grantee, which was used as the basis for the acceptance of the rates
agreed to herein and expressly relied upon by the Government in negotiating and accepting the
said rates is not subsequently found to be materially incomplete or inaccurate.

B.   ACCOUNTING CHANGES:  The rates contained in Section I of this agreement are
based on the accounting system in effect at the time this agreement was negotiated. Changes to
the method(s) of accounting for costs which affects the amount of reimbursement resulting from
the use of these rates require the written approval of the authorized representative of the
cognizant negotiating agency for the Government prior to implementation of any such changes. 
Such changes include but are not limited to changes in the charging of a particular type of cost
from indirect to direct.  Failure to obtain such approval may result in subsequent cost
disallowances.

C.   PREDETERMINED RATES: This type of rate is considered final and not subject to
adjustment in accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-21 and the Federal Acquisition
Regulation, subject to the limitations contained in Part A of this section.

D.   USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES:  The rates set forth in Section I hereof were
negotiated in accordance with and under the authority set forth in OMB Circular A-88. 
Accordingly, such rates shall be applied to the extent provided in such circular to grants,
contracts and other agreements to which OMB Circular A-21 is applicable, subject to any
limitations in part A of this section. Copies of this document may be provided by either party to
other Federal agencies which have or intend to issue or award grants and contracts using these
rates or to otherwise provide such agencies with documentary notice of this agreement and its
terms and conditions.

E.   SPECIAL REMARK(S):  The rates contained in Section I of this agreement are in
compliance with DFARS 231.303(1).  The administrative indirect costs for all rates are below the
26 percent limitation imposed on such costs by OMB Circular A-21.



FOR THE UNIVERSITY:                FOR THE GOVERNMENT:


                                                                                                                       
THOMAS J. MASON                    ANDREW D. HOLLAND
Vice President for Business Affairs               Contracting Officer

January 12, 1996                                       January 22, 1996                           
Date                               Date





       for information concerning this agreement contact:
                    OFFICE OF NAVAL RESEARCH
                       ANDREW D. HOLLAND
                     INDIRECT COSTS/ONR 242
                      800 N. QUINCY STREET
                      ARLINGTON, VA  22217
                     PHONE:  (703) 696-4842
              e-mail:  hollana@onrhq.onr.navy.mil
