CllgCA   California Institute of Technology   951643307 10/20/98 0081
 
                UNILATERAL RATE DETERMINATION
 
INSTITUTION:   CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
               PASADENA, CALIFORNIA  91125

The Facilities and Administration Cost, Staff Benefits, and Tuition
Remission rates contained herein are for use on grants, contracts
and/or other agreements issued or awarded to the California Institute
of Technology by all Federal Agencies of the United States of America,
in accordance with the provisions and cost principles mandated by the
Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-21.  These rates
shall be used for forward pricing and billing purposes at the
California Institute of Technology for Fiscal Year 1999 or until
amended.  This rate determination supersedes all previous rate
agreements and/or determinations for FY 1999.

SECTION I:     RATE - TYPE:   PROVISIONAL (PROV)

          Effective Period                       
Type    From    To             Rate    Base Location   Applicable To

FACILITIES AND ADMINISTRATION RATE (Indirect Cost):

Prov   10/1/98  Until Amended  56.00%  (a)  On Campus  Organized
                                                       Research*
                                                       (except JPL)

Prov   10/1/98  Until Amended  24.50%  (a)  Off Campus Organized
                                                       Research*
                                                       (except JPL)
STAFF BENEFIT RATE:

Prov   10/1/98  Until Amended  21.20%  (b)   All       Organized
                                                       Research
                                                       (except JPL) 

TUITION REMISSION RATE:

Prov   10/1/98  Until Amended  80.00%  (c)   All       Organized
                                                       Research
                                                       (except JPL)
* See comment under Section II, paragraph D.(2)

                       DISTRIBUTION BASES:

     (a)  Modified Total Direct Cost (MTDC), as defined in OMB
Circular A-21, consisting of all salaries and wages, fringe
benefits, materials and supplies, services, travel and subgrants
and subcontracts up to the first $25,000 of each subgrant or
subcontract (regardless of the period covered by the subgrant
or subcontract).  Equipment (defined as having a useful life of
two or more years, and an acquisition cost of $500 or more per
unit), capital expenditures, charges for patient care and tuition
remission, rental costs, scholarships, and fellowships as well as
the portion of each subgrant and subcontract in excess of $25,000
is excluded.

     (b)  Total direct salaries and wages of faculty, staff
(excluding graduate assistants) including vacation, holiday, and
sick leave.  (Leave consisting of accrued paid leave for salary and
hourly employees and actual paid leave for monthly employees.)

     (c)  Total direct salaries and wages of graduate assistants
including vacation, holiday, and sick leave. (Leave consisting of
actual paid leave for Graduate Assistants).

SECTION II - GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS

A.   LIMITATIONS:  Use of the rates set forth under Section I is
subject to any statutory or administrative limitations and is
applicable to a given grant, contract or other agreement only to
the extent that funds are available and consistent with any and all
limitations of cost clauses or provisions, if any, contained therein.
The rates established herein are predicated upon all the following
conditions: (1) that no costs other than those incurred by the
grantee/contractor were included in the indirect cost pool as
finally accepted and that all such costs are legal obligations of
the grantee/contractor and allowable under governing cost principles;
(2) that the same costs that have been treated as indirect costs are
not claimed as direct costs; (3) that similar types of costs have
been accorded consistent accounting treatment; and (4) that the
information provided by the contractor/grantee, which was used as
the basis for the rate determination herein and expressly relied
upon by the Government in establishing the said rate, is not
subsequently found to be materially incomplete or inaccurate.

B.   ACCOUNTING CHANGES:  The rates contained in Section I of this
rate determination are based on the accounting system in effect at
the time this determination was established. Changes to the
method(s) of accounting for costs which affects the amount of
reimbursement resulting from the use of these rates require the
written approval of the authorized representative of the cognizant
negotiating agency for the Government prior to implementation of any
such changes.  Such changes include but are not limited to changes
in the charging of a particular type of cost from
indirect to direct.  Failure to obtain such approval may result in subsequent cost
disallowances.

C.   USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES: The rates set forth in Section I are
established in accordance with and under the authority set forth in OMB Circular A-21. 
Accordingly, such rate shall be applied to the extent provided in such circular to grants
and contracts to which OMB Circular A-21 is applicable, subject to any limitations in
part A of this section. Copies of this document may be provided by either party to other
Federal agencies which have or intend to issue or award grants and contracts using
this rate or to otherwise provide such agencies with documentary notice of this
determination and its terms and conditions.
 
D.   SPECIAL REMARKS:

     (1) The Government's establishment of the rates set forth in Section I of this rate
determination is not an acceptance of the California Institute of Technology's (Caltech)
accounting system, cost classifications, allocation methodologies, cost analysis studies,
and proposed accounting changes Caltech submitted to the Government on 31 March
1998 applicable to FY 1999.  Any reliance by the Government on cost data or
methodologies submitted by Caltech is on a non-precedence setting basis and does not
imply Government acceptance.  The parties will continue to address any differences
regarding accounting system, cost classifications, allocation methodologies, cost
analysis studies, and proposed accounting changes, as well resolve any cost impact
adjustments, as necessary. 

     (2)  Observatory Facilities   The rates set forth in Section I in this rate determination do
not include any costs for Caltech's Observatory facilities.  

     (3)  The rates set forth in Section I of this rate determination are in compliance
with DFARS 231.303(1).  The Administration indirect costs are below the 26 percent
limitation imposed on these costs by OMB Circular A-21.


FOR THE GOVERNMENT:


DEBORAH K. RAFI                 /s/ 
DEBORAH K. RAFI        
Contracting Officer      
                    
                    
Date: 10/2/98

For information concerning this agreement contact: 
OFFICE OF NAVAL RESEARCH                PHONE:  (703) 696-5641
DEBORAH K. RAFI                              E-Mail: rafid@onr.navy.mil
ONR 242 / BCT #1 / ROOM 704
800 N. QUINCY STREET, ARLINGTON, VA  22217