CllgOH University of Dayton 310536715 06/26/96 0242



                     NEGOTIATION AGREEMENT



Institution:    UNIVERSITY OF DAYTON
               300 COLLEGE PARK
                DAYTON, OHIO 45469-1640

The Indirect Cost and Staff Benefits Rates contained herein are for
use on grants, contracts and/or other agreements issued or awarded to
the University of Dayton by all Federal Agencies of the United States
of America, in accordance with the cost principles mandated by the
Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-21, and OMB Circular
A-88.  These rates shall be used for forward pricing and billing
purposes at the University of Dayton for Fiscal Year 1997.



SECTION I:  RATES - TYPE: PREDETERMINED (PRED)
                          FIXED AND CARRY FORWARD
PROVISIONS(FIXED)


TYPE     FROM      TO     RATE   BASE   APPLICABLE FUNCTION

Indirect Cost Rates

Pred     7/1/96  6/30/97  47.71%  (a)   Organized Research
                                        On-Campus

Pred     7/1/96  6/30/97  25.22%  (a)   Organized Research
                                        Off-Campus

Staff Benefit Rates

Fixed     7/1/96  6/30/97  30.78%  (b)       All

                        DISTRIBUTION BASE

(a)  Modified Total Direct Cost (MTDC), as defined in OMB Circular A-21, consisting of
salaries and wages, fringe benefits, materials and
supplies, services, travel and subgrants and subcontracts up to the
first $25,000 each (regardless of the period covered by the subgrant
or subcontract); and excluding equipment (defined as having a useful
life of more than one year and a acquisition cost of $500 or more per
unit), capital expenditures, charges for patient care and tuition
remission, rental costs, scholarships and fellowships as well as the
portion of each subgrant and subcontract in excess of $25,000.

(b)  Salaries and Wages.



SECTION II - GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS



A.   LIMITATIONS:  Use of the rates set forth under Section I is
subject to any statutory or administrative limitations and is
applicable to a given grant, contract or other agreement only to the
extent that funds are available and consistent with any and all
limitations of cost clauses or provisions, if any, contained therein.
Acceptance of the rates agreed to herein is predicated upon all of the
following conditions: (1) that no costs other than those incurred by
the grantee/contractor were included in this indirect cost pool as
finally accepted and that such costs are legal obligations of the
grantee/contractor and allowable under governing cost principles; (2)
that the same costs that have been treated as indirect costs are not
claimed as direct costs; (3) that similar types of costs have been
accorded consistent accounting treatment; and (4) that the information
provided by the grantee/contractor, which was used as the basis for
acceptance of the rates agreed to herein and expressly relied upon by
the Government in negotiating and accepting the said rates, is not
subsequently found to be materially incomplete or inaccurate.

B.   ACCOUNTING CHANGES:  The rates contained in Section I of this
agreement are based on the accounting system in effect at the time the
agreement was negotiated.  Changes to the method(s) of accounting for
costs which affect the amount of reimbursement resulting from the use
of these rates require the written approval of the authorized
representative of the cognizant negotiating agency for the Government
prior to implementation of any such changes.  Such changes include but
are not limited to changes in the charging of a particular type of
costs from indirect to direct.  Failure to obtain such approval may
result in subsequent cost disallowances.


C.   PREDETERMINED RATES: This type of rate is considered final and
not subject to adjustment in accordance with the provisions of OMB
Circular A-21 and the Federal Acquisition Regulation, subject to the
limitations contained in Part A of this section.

D.   FIXED RATES AND CARRY-FORWARD PROVISIONS:

     The staff rate contained in this agreement is inclusive of the
finalized carry-forward amount from FY 1995.  This represents full and
complete liquidation of the net cumulative carry-forward amounts
through FY 1995.

E.   USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES:

     The rates set forth in Section I hereof were negotiated in
accordance with and under the authority set forth in OMB Circular A-88.
Accordingly, such rates shall be applied to the extent provided
in such circular to grants and contracts to which OMB Circular A-21 is
applicable, subject to any limitations in part A of this section.
Copies of this document may be provided by either party to other
Federal agencies which have or intend to issue or award grants and
contracts using these rates or otherwise provide such agencies with
documentary notice of this agreement and its terms and conditions.


G.   SPECIAL REMARKS:

     1.   The rates contained in this agreement partially
utilized the institution's cost allocation studies for Space and
Energy.  However, establishment of these rates does not
constitute Government acceptance of these studies for this year
or any other fiscal year.

     2.   The rates contained in Section I of this agreement are
in compliance with DFARS 231.303(1).  The administrative indirect
costs for all rates are below the 26 percent limitation imposed
on such costs by OMB Circular A-21.











FOR THE UNIVERSITY:                     FOR THE U.S GOVERNMENT:

                             /s/                              /s/
THOMAS E. BURKHARDT                MICHAEL KUC
Vice President for Financial       Contracting Officer
Affairs & Treasury


Date                               Date

        For information concerning this agreement contact:
                     OFFICE OF NAVAL RESEARCH
                           GIGI FORDHAM
                      INDIRECT COSTS/ONR 242
                      800 N. QUINCY STREET
                       ARLINGTON, VA  22217
                      PHONE: (703) 696-8559
