

CllgNY Polytechnic University 111630820 06/17/97 0032
                                                                                                                                                        
                 NEGOTIATION AGREEMENT

Institution: Polytechnic University
                   Brooklyn, NY 11201

The Facilities & Administrative (F&A) rate and fringe benefit rate 
contained herein are for use on grants and contracts with all 
Federal agencies in accordance with the cost principles mandated
by Office Of Management And Budget (OMB) Circular A-21.  These 
rates shall be used for forward pricing and billing purposes 
for Polytechnic University's fiscal year 1997.  This rate
agreement supersedes all previous rate agreements/determinations 
for Polytechnic University's FY 1997.
                                                                                                                                                         

SECTION I: RATES - TYPE: FIXED WITH CARRYFORWARD ("FIXED")
                                                                                                                                                           

OVERHEAD RATE

                                           APPLICABLE 
TYPE   FROM    TO        RATE      BASE    TO              LOCATION

Fixed 7/01/96  6/30/97   64.65%    (a)     All Programs    On-Campus 


FRINGE BENEFIT RATE
 
                                           APPLICABLE 
TYPE   FROM    TO        RATE      BASE    TO              LOCATION

Fixed  7/01/96 6/30/97   32.29%    (b)     All Programs    All

                                               DISTRIBUTION BASE

     (a)  Direct salaries and wages.

     (b)  Salaries and wages.

                                                                                                                                         

SECTION II: GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS
                                                                                                                                                       

A.  LIMITATION: Use of the rates contained in this agreement are 
subject to any statutory or administrative limitations and are 
applicable to a given grant or contract only to the extent that
funds are available.  Acceptance of the rates agreed to herein 
is predicated upon the following conditions: (1) that no costs 
other than those incurred by the contractor/grantee were 
included in this indirect cost pool as finally accepted and 
that such costs are legal obligations of the contractor/grantee 
and allowable under governing cost principles; (2) that the same 
costs that have been treated as indirect costs are not claimed 
as direct costs; (3) that similar types of costs have been 
accorded consistent accounting treatment; and (4) the 
information provided by the institution which was used as a 
basis for acceptance of the rates agreed to herein and 
expressly relied upon by the Government in negotiating and 
accepting the said rates is not subsequently found to be 
materially incomplete or inaccurate.

B ACCOUNTING CHANGES: The fixed rates contained in this 
agreement are based on the accounting system in effect at 
the time this agreement was negotiated.  Changes to the 
method of accounting for costs which affect the amount of 
reimbursement resulting form the use of these rates 
requires the approval of the authorized representative of 
the cognizant agency.  Such changes include, but are not 
limited to, changes in the charging of a particular type 
of cost from indirect to direct.  Failure to obtain 
approval may result in cost disallowances. 

C.  USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES: The rates in this 
agreement were negotiated in accordance with the 
authority in Office Of Management And Budget Circular 
A-21, and should be applied to grants, contracts and 
other agreements covered by Office Of Management And
Budget Circular A-21, subject to any limitations in 
A above.  The institution may provide copies of the 
agreement to other Federal agencies to give them early 
notification of the agreement contained herein.

D.  FIXED RATES: Each fixed rate in this agreement is 
based on an estimate of the cost for the period 
covered by the rate.  When actual costs for this 
period are determined an adjustment may be made to a 
rate of a future year to recognize the difference 
between the estimated costs used to establish the 
fixed rate and the negotiated actual costs.

E.  QUALIFICATION:  

      1.  The purpose of this agreement is to establish 
indirect cost rates for the period 1 July 1996 to 
30 June 1997.  These rates are based on Polytechnic 
University's proposal dated 28 April 1997, and the 
establishment of these rates by the Government, based on 
the accounting systems and allocation methodologies 
contained in this proposal does not represent an agreement 
that these systems and methodologies are accepted for 
fiscal year 1997 or for any subsequent fiscal year's rate 
negotiation.  The recommendations of the Defense Contract 
Audit Agency, Long Island Branch in Audit Report 
2201-96B23000007 were considered during the negotiation of
these rates.
  
      2.  The establishment of these fixed rates does not 
represent agreement by the Government regarding the 
acceptability of Polytechnic University's accounting 
system or allocation methodologies.



For Polytechnic University                      For The Government

                                                                                                                                       
                                                                         
Signature                                       Signatute
                                                
						Robert E. Austen                        
Name                                            Name

						Contracting Officer                                                      
Title                                           Title

                                                      
Date                                            Date

                                               
