CllgCA Stanford University 941156365  9/1/98  0089

                   PROVISIONAL RATE AGREEMENT

INSTITUTION:  STANFORD UNIVERSITY
              Stanford, California 94305

The Facilities and Administrative cost and Fringe Benefit rates
contained herein are for use on grants, contracts and/or other
agreements issued or awarded to Stanford University by all Federal
Agencies of the United States of America, in accordance with the cost
principles and provisions mandated by the Office of Management and
Budget (OMB) Circular A-21.  These rates shall be used for forward
pricing and billing purposes for Stanford University's Fiscal
Year 1999 or until amended.

SECTION I:  RATES - TYPE: PROVISIONAL  (PROV)

Facilities and Administration Rates:
       Effective Period                
Type   From    To             Rate     Base   Applicable    Location
                                                 To

Prov   9/1/98  Until Amended  58.50%   (a)    Organized     On Campus
                                              Research      

Prov   9/1/98  Until Amended  30.20%   (a)    Organized     Off Campus
                                              Research

Prov   9/1/98  Until Amended  40.50%   (a)    Sponsored     On Campus
                                              Instruction*

Prov   9/1/98  Until Amended  28.80%   (a)    Sponsored     Off Campus
                                              Instruction*
 
Prov   9/1/98  Until Amended  25.50%   (a)    Other         All 
                                              Sponsored                                            
                                              Activities

Prov   9/1/98  Until Amended  95.00%   (b)    Animal Care   VSC** 

*Including Education Service Agreements
**Veterinary Service Center


Fringe Benefits Rates:

       Effective Period                

Type   From    To             Rate     Base  Applicable     Location
                                                To

Prov   9/1/98  Until Amended  25.30%   (c)   Regular        All
                                             Benefits -
                                             Eligible
                                             Employees

       Effective Period                

Type   From    To            Rate    Base   Applicable    Location
                                               To 

Prov   9/1/98  Until Amended 14.60%  (c)    Post-          All
                                            Doctoral
                                            Research 
                                            Affiliates

Prov   9/1/98  Until Amended  8.40%  (c)    Contingent     All
                                            Employees     


                            DISTRIBUTION BASES:

(a)   Modified Total Direct Cost (MTDC), consisting of salaries and
wages, fringe benefits, materials and supplies, services, travel and
subgrants and subcontracts up to the first $25,000 of each subgrant
or subcontract.  Equipment, capital expenditures, charges for
patient care and tuition remission, rental costs, scholarships, and
fellowships as well as the portion of each subgrant and subcontract
in excess of $25,000 shall be excluded from modified total direct
costs.  Equipment is defined as having an acquisition cost which
equals or exceeds $1,500 and a useful life of more than two years for
equipment acquired before 1 September 1998 or a useful life of more
than one year for equipment acquired on or after 1 September 1998.
University fabricated equipment is defined as consisting of purchased
components having a total value which equals or exceeds $1,500 and
a useful life of more than two years for equipment fabricated before
1 September 1998 or a useful life of more than one year for equipment
fabricated on or after 1 September 1998.

(b)  VSC direct costs.

(c)  Direct Salaries and Wages including vacation, holidays, and sick
leave where applicable.

SECTION II - GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS

A.   LIMITATIONS:  Use of the rates set forth under Section I is
subject to any statutory or administrative limitations and is
applicable to a given grant, contract or other agreement only to
the extent that funds are available and consistent with any and
all limitations of cost clauses or provisions, if any, contained
therein.  Acceptance of the rates agreed to herein is predicated
upon all the following conditions: (1) that no costs other than
those incurred by the grantee/contractor were included in the
indirect cost pool as finally accepted and that all such costs
are legal obligations of the grantee/contractor and allowable
under governing  cost principles; (2) that the same costs that
have been treated as indirect costs are not claimed as direct
costs; (3) that similar types of costs have been accorded
consistent accounting treatment; and (4) that the information
provided by the contractor/grantee, which was used as the
basis for the acceptance of the rates agreed to herein and
expressly relied upon by the Government in establishing and
accepting the said rates, is not subsequently found to be
materially incomplete or inaccurate.

B.   ACCOUNTING CHANGES: The rates contained in Section I
of this agreement are based on the accounting system in
effect at the time this agreement was established, except
as noted in paragraph D below.  Changes to the method(s) of
accounting for costs which affects the amount of
reimbursement resulting from the use of these rates require
the written approval of the authorized representative of the
cognizant negotiating agency for the Government prior to
implementation of any such changes.  Such changes include
but are not limited to changes in the charging of a particular
type of cost from indirect to direct.  Failure to obtain such
approval may result in subsequent cost disallowances.

C.   USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES:  The rates set forth in Section I
hereof were established in accordance with and under the authority
set forth in OMB Circular A-21.  Accordingly, such rates shall be
applied to the extent provided in such circular to grants, contracts
and other agreements to which OMB Circular A-21 is applicable,
subject to any limitations in part A of this section.  Copies of this
document may be provided by either party to other Federal agencies
which have or intend to issue or award agreements using these rates,
or to otherwise provide such agencies with documentary notice of this
determination and its terms and conditions. 

D.   QUALIFICATIONS: The parties have agreed to these bilateral
provisional rates with the following understanding:

     1.   The Government's agreement with these rates is not an
acceptance of Stanford University's accounting systems, allocation
methodologies, cost analysis studies and carry-forwards from past
years relative to the FY 1999 proposals.

     2.   The Government will review Stanford University's FY 1999
Facility and Administrative cost and Fringe Benefits rate proposals.
The parties will address any differences regarding Stanford
University's accounting systems, allocation methodology, cost
analysis studies and carry-forward amounts, and will attempt to
resolve these differences before the FY 1999 predetermined/fixed
with carry-forward rates are negotiated.

     3.   The Government's use of any data submitted by Stanford
from a cost analysis study in support of its proposals, either
completed or partially completed, shall not be considered as
acceptance or pre-approval of such study.

     4.   This agreement does not alter the Government's or
Stanford University's previously stated positions on historical
cost issues, Memorandum of Understanding (MOUs), types of rates,
or existing litigation.

     5.   Furthermore, the parties agree this bilateral
provisional rate agreement for Stanford University's FY 1999
Facility and Administrative cost and Fringe Benefits rates will
not be cited by either party for purposes other than as a
provisional rate agreement between the parties on Stanford
University's FY 1999 Facility and Administrative cost and Fringe
Benefits rates.

     6.   Stanford University is not making any concessions or
admissions about the allowability of any costs.  By agreeing to
accept less than its estimated costs in these bilateral provisional
rates, Stanford University is not stating or implying that any costs
were ever unallowable or inappropriate, nor is it agreeing to a
similar treatment of these costs in the future.

E.   DFARS WAIVER: Signature of this agreement by the authorized
representatives of Stanford University and the Government
acknowledges and affirms the University's request to waive the
prohibition contained in DFARS 231.303(2) and the Government's
exercise of its discretion contained in DFARS 231.303(2). Stanford
University's request to waive the prohibition is made to simplify
the University's overall management of DOD cost reimbursements
under DOD contracts.

The undersigned hereby declare that the terms of this document
have been completely read and are fully understood and voluntarily
accepted.

The individuals executing this agreement are authorized to execute
for and on behalf of the parties for whom they sign and do so as
their free and voluntary act, recognizing this agreement may be
canceled by either party, in which case the Government may establish
unilateral provisional rates.

FOR STANFORD UNIVERSITY:                FOR THE GOVERNMENT:


/s/                                     /s/                                                    
MARIANN BYERWALTER                      DEBORAH K. RAFI        
Vice President for Business Affairs     Contracting Officer      
and Chief Financial Officer
                                  
August 31, 1998                         September 1, 1998               
Date                                    Date



For information concerning this document contact:
DEBORAH K. RAFI                         PHONE: (703) 696-5641
OFFICE OF NAVAL RESEARCH                EMAIL: rafid@onr.navy.mil
INDIRECT COSTS/ONR 242 / Rm 704
800 N. QUINCY STREET
ARLINGTON, VA 22217