

CllgOH  University of Dayton 310536715 06/4/98  0065
                                                                                                                                                            
               NEGOTIATION AGREEMENT
 
INSTITUTION:   UNIVERSITY OF DAYTON
               300 COLLEGE PARK
               DAYTON, OHIO 45469-1640

The Facilities and Administrative cost and Staff Benefit rates 
contained herein are for use on grants, contracts and/or other 
agreements issued or awarded to the University of Dayton by all
Federal Agencies of the United States of America, in accordance with 
the cost principles mandated by the Office of Management and Budget
(OMB) Circular A-21.  These rates shall be used for forward pricing
and billing purposes at the University of Dayton for  Fiscal Year 1999. 
This rate agreement supercedes all previous rate agreements/
determinations for Fiscal Year 1999.

SECTION I:  RATES - TYPE: PREDETERMINED (PRED)
            FIXED WITH CARRY- FORWARD PROVISIONS (FIXED)
 
         Effective Period                      
Type   From     To        Rate      Base     Applicable Function 
  
Facilities and Administrative Cost Rates

Pred   7/1/98  6/30/99    46.61%    (a)      Organized Research
                                             On Campus

Pred   7/1/98  6/30/99    25.34%    (a)      Organized Research
                                             Off Campus

Staff Benefit Rates

Fixed  7/1/98  6/30/99    28.67%    (b)      All 

Fixed  7/1/98  6/30/99    14.64%    (c)      All 

                                 
                       DISTRIBUTION BASE:

(a)  Modified Total Direct Cost (MTDC), as defined in OMB Circular 
A-21, consisting of salaries and wages, fringe benefits, materials
and supplies, services, travel and subgrants and subcontracts up
to the first $25,000 of each  (regardless of the period covered by
the subgrant or subcontract); and excluding equipment (defined as
having a useful life of more than one year and an acquisition cost
of $1,000 or more per unit), capital expenditures, charges for
patient care, tuition remission, rental costs, scholarships and
fellowships as well as the portion of each subgrant and 
subcontract in excess of $25,000.

(b)  Non-student research salaries and wages.

(c)  Student research salaries.

SECTION II - GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS

A.   LIMITATIONS:  Use of the rates set forth under Section I is 
subject to any statutory or administrative limitations, and is 
applicable to a given grant, contract or other agreement only to
the extent that funds are available and consistent with any and all
limitations of cost clauses or provisions, if any, contained therein.  
Acceptance of the rates agreed to herein is predicated upon all the
following conditions: (1) that no costs other than those incurred by
the grantee/contractor were included in the F&A or fringe pool as
finally accepted and that all such costs are legal obligations of the
grantee/contractor and allowable under governing  cost principles;
(2) that the same costs that have been treated as indirect costs are
not claimed as direct costs; (3) that similar types of costs have been
accorded consistent accounting treatment; and (4) that the information
provided by the contractor/grantee, which was used as the basis for
the acceptance of the rates agreed to herein and expressly relied upon
by the Government in negotiating and accepting the said rates is not
subsequently found to be materially incomplete or inaccurate.

B.   ACCOUNTING CHANGES:  The rates contained in Section I of this
agreement are based on the accounting system in effect at the time
this agreement was negotiated. Changes to the method(s) of accounting
for costs which affects the amount of reimbursement resulting from the
use of these rates require the written approval of the authorized
representative of the cognizant negotiating agency for the Government
prior to implementation of any such changes.  Such changes include but
are not limited to changes in the charging of a particular type of cost
from indirect to direct.  Failure to obtain such approval may result in
subsequent cost disallowances.

C.   PREDETERMINED RATES: This type of rate is considered final and not
subject to adjustment in accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular
A-21 and the Federal Acquisition Regulation, subject to the limitations
contained in Part A of this section.

D.   CARRY-FORWARD AMOUNTS:

The staff benefits rates contained in this agreement is inclusive of
the actual carry-forward amount from FY 1997.  This represents full 
and complete liquidation of the net cumulative carry-forward amounts
through FY 1997.

E.  USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES:  The rates set forth in Section I
hereof were negotiated in accordance with and under the authority set
forth in OMB Circular A-21.  Accordingly, such rates shall be applied
to the extent provided in such circular to grants, contracts and other
agreements to which OMB Circular A-21 is applicable, subject to any
limitations in part A of this section. Copies of this document may be
provided by either party to other Federal agencies which have or 
intend to issue or award grants and contracts using these rates or to
otherwise provide such agencies with documentary notice of this
agreement and its terms and conditions.

F.   SPECIAL REMARK(S):  

The rates contained in this agreement partially utilized the
institutions's cost allocation studies for Space and Energy.
However, establishment of these rates does not constitute
Government acceptance of these studies for this year or any other 
fiscal year.


FOR THE UNIVERSITY:                FOR THE GOVERNMENT:


/s/                                /s/
THOMAS E. BURKHARDT                MICHAEL KUC
Vice President for Financial       Contracting Officer
Affairs & Treasury

3 June 1998                        4 June 1998
Date                               Date

                                
                                
       for information concerning this agreement contact:
                    OFFICE OF NAVAL RESEARCH
                          GIGI FORDHAM
                     INDIRECT COSTS/ONR 242
                      800 N. QUINCY STREET
                      ARLINGTON, VA  22217
                     PHONE:  (703) 696-8559
                   e-mail: fordhag@onr.navy.mil