CllgVA The College of William and Mary 546001718 5/20/97 0021


                                                                 
                     NEGOTIATION AGREEMENT
                                 
                                                                 

Institution:    THE COLLEGE OF WILLIAM AND MARY
                WILLIAMSBURG, VIRGINIA 23185                      

The Facilities and Administrative (F&A) cost rates contained herein
are for use on grants, contracts and/or other agreements issued or
awarded to the College of William and Mary by all Federal Agencies of
the United States of America, in accordance with the provisions and
cost principles mandated by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB)
Circular A-21.  This rate shall be used for forward pricing and
billing purposes at the College of William and Mary for the period 1
July 1996 through 30 June 2000.  This rate agreement supersedes the
previous provisional rate determination for FY 1997.
                                                                 

SECTION I:  RATES - TYPE: PREDETERMINED
                                                                 

Facility and Administrative Rates (Indirect Cost Rates):

TYPE     FROM        TO        RATE   BASE    APPLICABLE TO
Pred    7/01/96   6/30/00      46.0%  (a)     Organized Research (1)
                                              On-Campus
Pred    7/01/96   6/30/00      57.0%  (a)     Organized Research (2)
                                              On-Campus

                        DISTRIBUTION BASE

(a)  Modified Total Direct Cost (MTDC), as defined in OMB Circular A-21, 
consisting of salaries and wages, fringe benefits, materials and
supplies, services, travel and subgrants and subcontracts up to the
first $25,000 each (regardless of the period covered by the subgrant
or subcontract); and excluding equipment (defined as having a useful
life of more than one year and an acquisition cost of $500 or more per
unit), capital expenditures, charges for patient care and tuition
remission, rental costs, scholarships and fellowships as well as the
portion of each subgrant and subcontract in excess of $25,000.

                                
                                
                                
                         APPLICABLE TO
                                
(1)  Applies to all Non-DoD Instruments, all DoD Grants, and all DoD 
contracts awarded before November 30, 1993 (See Section II, Part G hereof).

(2)  Applies only to DoD contracts awarded on or after November 30, 1993 
in accordance with and under the authority of DFARS 231.303(1) (See Section II,
Part D hereof).

                                                                      

SECTION II - GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS
                             
                                                                      

A.   LIMITATIONS:  Use of the rate(s) set forth under Section I is
subject to any statutory or administrative limitations and is
applicable to a given grant, contract or other agreement only to the
extent that funds are available and consistent with any and all
limitations of cost clauses or provisions, if any, contained therein. 
Acceptance of the rates agreed to herein is predicated upon all of the
following conditions: (1) that no costs other than those incurred by
the grantee/contractor were included in this indirect cost pool as
finally accepted and that such costs are legal obligations of the
grantee/contractor and allowable under governing cost principles; (2)
that the same costs that have been treated as indirect costs are not
claimed as direct costs; (3) that similar types of costs have been
accorded consistent accounting treatment; and (4) that the information
provided by the grantee/contractor, which was used as the basis for
acceptance of the rates agreed to herein and expressly relied upon by
the Government in negotiating and accepting the said rates, is not
subsequently found to be materially incomplete or inaccurate.

B.   ACCOUNTING CHANGES:  The rate(s) contained in Section I of this
agreement are based on the accounting system in effect at the time the
rate was established.  Changes to the method(s) of accounting for
costs which affect the amount of reimbursement resulting from the use
of these rates require the written approval of the authorized
representative of the cognizant negotiating agency for the Government
prior to implementation of any such changes.  Such changes include but
are not limited to changes in the charging of a particular type of
costs from indirect to direct.  Failure to obtain such approval may
result in subsequent cost disallowances.

C.   PREDETERMINED RATES:  This type of rate is considered final and
not subject to adjustment in accordance with the provisions of OMB
Circular A-21 and the Federal Acquisition Regulation, subject to
limitations contained in Part A of this section.

D.   CARRY-FORWARD AMOUNTS: The FY 1994 actual carry-forward amounts,
as established by the Negotiation Agreement, FY 1994 Final Rate and
Carry-Forward, dated 20 March 1996, are liquidated herein in their
entirety.  The total carry-forward amount of $306,301 is spread
equally over the fiscal years proposed to avoid distorting the
rate.  Accordingly, the rates set forth in Section I of this agreement
are inclusive of and represent full and complete liquidation of the
actual carry-forward amounts resulting from the establishment of FY
1994 actual costs.  No future claim for carry-forward amounts
applicable to FY 1994 shall be submitted.

E.   USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES: 

     The rate set forth in Section I hereof was established in
accordance with and under the authority set forth in OMB Circular A-21.  
Accordingly, such rate shall be applied to the extent provided in
such circular to grants and contracts to which OMB Circular A-21 is
applicable, subject to any limitations in part A of this section. 
Copies of this document may be provided by either party to other
Federal agencies which have or intend to issue or award grants and
contracts using these rates or otherwise provide such agencies with
documentary notice of this agreement and its terms and conditions.

G.   SPECIAL REMARKS:

     In accordance with DFARS 231.303, no limitation (unless waived by
the institution) may be placed on the reimbursement of otherwise
allowable indirect costs incurred by an institution of higher
education under a DOD contract awarded on or after November 30, 1993,
unless the same limitation is applied uniformly to all other
organizations performing similar work.  It has been determined by the
Department of Defense that such limitation is not being uniformly
applied.  Accordingly, the rates cited "(2)" of Section I, as
explained under the title "APPLICABLE TO", do not reflect the
application of the 26% limitation on administrative indirect costs
imposed by OMB Circular A-21 where as "(1)" does.
     










FOR THE INSTITUTION:                         FOR THE U.S GOVERNMENT:


                                                                        
William F. Merck, II                         DEBORAH K. RAFI
Vice President for                           Contracting Officer
Administration & Finance

                                                                        
Date                                         Date

        for information concerning this agreement contact:
                     OFFICE OF NAVAL RESEARCH
                 DEBORAH K. RAFI OR GIGI FORDHAM
                      INDIRECT COSTS/ONR 242
                      800 N. QUINCY STREET
                       ARLINGTON, VA  22217
                    PHONE: (703) 696-5641/8559
                                
                                
                                
                                
