CllgNY University of Rochester 160743209 10/21/96 0009



                                
                      NEGOTIATION AGREEMENT
                                


INSTITUTION:   UNIVERSITY OF ROCHESTER
               ROCHESTER, NEW YORK 14620
               
The Facility and Administrative cost rates contained herein are for use on all grants and/or contracts
issued or awarded to the University of Rochester by all Federal agencies of the United States of
America in accordance with the provisions and cost principles mandated by the Office of
Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-21. These predetermined rates shall be used for
forward pricing and billing purposes for University of Rochester's Fiscal Years 1997 and 1998. This
rate agreement supersedes all previous rate agreements/determinations for Fiscal Years 1997 and
1998.



SECTION I: RATES - TYPE: PREDETERMINED "PRED"



Type       From          To         Rate       Base      Applicable To          Location
Facility and Administrative Rates (Indirect Cost):
Pred      7-1-96      6-30-97 59.0%         (a)      Organized Research         On Campus

Pred      7-1-96      6-30-97 29.0%         (a)     Organized Research          Off Campus

Pred      7-1-97     6-30-98  59.0%         (a)     Organized Research          On Campus

Pred      7-1-97     6-30-98  29.0%         (a)     Organized Research          Off Campus

               
                       DISTRIBUTION BASE 

The following bases are applicable to the above cited rates:

(a)  Modified Total Direct Cost (MTDC), as defined in OMB Circular A-21, consisting of all
     salaries and wages, fringe benefits, materials and supplies, services, travel and subgrants and
     subcontracts up to the first $25,000 of each subgrant or subcontract (regardless of the period
     covered by the subgrant or subcontract).  Equipment (defined as having a useful life of one
     or more years, and an acquisition cost of $1000 or more per unit), capital expenditures,
     charges for patient care and tuition remission, rental costs, scholarships, and fellowships as
     well as the portion of each subgrant and subcontract in excess of $25,000 is excluded.



SECTION II - GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS



A.  LIMITATIONS:  Use of the rates set forth under Section I of this agreement is expressly
subject to any statutory or administrative limitations and is applicable to a given grant, contract, or
other agreement only to the extent that funds are available and consistent with any and all
limitations of cost clauses or provisions, if any, contained therein.  Acceptance of any or all of the
rates agreed to herein is predicated upon all the following conditions: (1) that no costs other than
those incurred by the grantee/contractor were included in its indirect cost pool as finally accepted
and that all such costs are legal obligations of the grantee/contractor and allowable under the
governing and applicable cost principles; (2) that the same costs that have been treated as indirect
costs are not claimed as direct costs; (3) that similar types of costs have been accorded consistent
accounting treatment; and (4) that the information provided by the contractor/grantee, which was
used as the basis for the acceptance of the rate(s) agreed to herein and expressly relied upon by the
Government in negotiating and accepting the said rates, is not subsequently found to be materially
incomplete or inaccurate.

B.  ACCOUNTING CHANGES: The predetermined rates contained in Section I of this agreement
are based on the accounting system in effect at the time this agreement was negotiated.  Changes to
the method of accounting for costs which affects the amount of reimbursement resulting from the
use of these rates requires the express and written approval of the authorized representative of the
cognizant negotiating agency for the Government prior to implementation of any such changes. 
Such changes include but are not limited to changes in the charging of a particular type of cost from
indirect to direct.  Failure on the part of the grantee/contractor to obtain the required approval may
result in subsequent cost disallowances.

C.  PREDETERMINED RATES: The predetermined rates contained in this agreement are not
subject to adjustment in accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-21, subject to the
limitations contained in Part A of this section.

D.  SPECIAL REMARKS:

     1.  The off-Campus rate applies when the preponderance of the effort occurs off-campus for
a continuous period of more than thirty (30) days.

     2.  The Government's agreement with these rates is not an acceptance of the institution's
accounting systems, cost classifications, allocation methodologies, cost analysis and special studies,
and the reasonableness of any specific proposed costs.


              
     3.  Signature of this agreement by the authorized representatives of the University of
Rochester and the Government, acknowledges and affirms the university's request for waiver of the
prohibition contained in DFARS 231.303(1) and the Government's exercise of its discretion under
DFARS 231.303(2) to waive the prohibition in DFARS 231.303(1).  The waiver request by
University of Rochester is made to simplify the university's overall management of DOD cost
reimbursements under DOD contracts.


FOR UNIVERSITY OF ROCHESTER:            FOR THE GOVERNMENT:




By:                                                    /s/            By:                                                    /s/ 
      Richard W. Greene                            Deborah K. Rafi
      Executive Vice President & Treasurer                   Contracting Officer


Date:     October 18, 1996                                  Date:   October 21, 1996                    





FOR INFORMATION CONCERNING THIS AGREEMENT CONTACT:

          OFFICE OF NAVAL RESEARCH
          DEBORAH K. RAFI  
          INDIRECT COST DIVISION/ONR 242
          ROOM 717  
          800 N. QUINCY STREET
          ARLINGTON, VA 22217
          (703) 696-5641