

CllgCA  Stanford University  941156365  9/2/97  0045



                   PROVISIONAL RATE AGREEMENT
                                


INSTITUTION:  STANFORD UNIVERSITY
              Stanford, California 94305

The Facility and Administrative cost and Fringe Benefit rates contained
herein are for use on grants, contracts and/or other agreements issued 
or awarded to Stanford University by all Federal Agencies of the United 
States of America, in accordance with the cost principles and 
provisions mandated by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) 
Circular A-21. These rates shall be used for forward pricing and 
billing purposes for Stanford University's Fiscal Year 1998 or 
until amended.

SECTION I:  RATES - TYPE: PROVISIONAL  (PROV)

Facility and Administration Rates:
        Effective Period                
Type    From      To               Rate     Base Applicable  Location
                                                     To

Prov    9/1/97    Until Amended    56.20%   (a)  Organized   On Campus 
                                                 Research

Prov    9/1/97    Until Amended    30.80%   (a)  Organized   Off Campus
                                                 Research

Prov    9/1/97    Until Amended    33.40%   (a)  Sponsored   On Campus
                                                 Instruction*
 
Prov    9/1/97    Until Amended    25.80%   (a)  Sponsored   Off Campus
                                                 Instruction*

Prov    9/1/97    Until Amended    26.00%   (a)  Other       All 
                                                 Sponsored
                                                 Activities

Prov    9/1/97    Until Amended     83.00%  (b)  Animal Care VSC** 

*Including Education Service Agreements
**Veterinary Service Center


Fringe Benefits Rates:
        Effective Period                
Type    From      To               Rate     Base  Applicable  Location
                                                       To

Prov    9/1/97    Until Amended    26.20%   (c)   Regular      All
                                                  Benefits   
                                                  Eligible 
                                                  Employees

        Effective Period                
Type    From      To               Rate     Base  Applicable   Location
                                                      To

Prov    9/1/97    Until Amended    15.60%   (c)   Post-Doctoral All
                                                  Research 
                                                  Affiliates

Prov    9/1/97    Until Amended     8.70%   (c)   Contingent    All
                                                  Employees

DISTRIBUTION BASES:

(a)   Modified Total Direct Cost (MTDC), consisting of salaries and 
wages, fringe benefits, materials and supplies, services, travel 
and subgrants and subcontracts up to the first $25,000 each.  
Materials and supplies include purchases of items costing less than 
$1,500 or with less than a two year life, and University fabricated 
equipment with purchase components having a total value of less than 
$1,500.

(b)  VSC direct costs.

(c)  Direct Salaries and Wages including vacation, holidays, and 
sick leave where applicable.

SECTION II - GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS

A.   LIMITATIONS:  Use of the rates set forth under Section I is 
subject to any statutory or administrative limitations and is 
applicable to a given grant, contract or other agreement only to
the extent that funds are available and consistent with any and 
all limitations of cost clauses or provisions, if any, 
contained therein.  Acceptance of the rates agreed to herein is 
predicated upon all the following conditions: (1) that no 
costs other than those incurred by the grantee/contractor
were included in the indirect cost pool as finally accepted 
and that all such costs are legal obligations of the grantee/
contractor and allowable under governing  cost principles; (2) 
that the same costs that have been treated as indirect costs 
are not claimed as direct costs; (3) that similar types of costs 
have been accorded consistent accounting treatment; and (4) that 
the information provided by the contractor/grantee, which was 
used as the basis for the acceptance of the rates agreed to 
herein and expressly relied upon by the Government in 
establishing and accepting the said rates, is not 
subsequently found to be materially incomplete or inaccurate.

B.   ACCOUNTING CHANGES: The rates contained in Section I of 
this agreement are based on the accounting system in effect 
at the time this agreement was established, except as noted 
in paragraph D below.  Changes to the method(s) of accounting 
for costs which affects the amount of reimbursement resulting 
from the use of these rates require the written approval of the
authorized representative of the cognizant negotiating agency 
for the Government prior to implementation of any such changes.  
Such changes include but are not limited to changes in the
charging of a particular type of cost from indirect to direct.  
Failure to obtain such approval may result in subsequent cost 
disallowances.

C.   USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES:  The rates set forth in 
Section I hereof were established in accordance with and 
under the authority set forth in OMB Circular A-21.  
Accordingly, such rates shall be applied to the extent 
provided in such circular to grants, contracts and
other agreements to which OMB Circular A-21 is applicable, 
subject to any limitations in part A of this section.  
Copies of this document may be provided by either party to 
other Federal agencies which have or intend to issue or 
award agreements using these rates, or to otherwise provide
such agencies with documentary notice of this determination 
and its terms and conditions. 

D.   QUALIFICATIONS: The parties have agreed to these 
bilateral provisional rates with the following understanding:

     1.   The Government's agreement with these rates is not 
an acceptance of Stanford University's accounting systems, 
allocation methodologies, cost analysis studies and carry-
forwards from past years relative to the FY 1998 proposals.

     2.   The Government will review Stanford University's 
FY 1998 Facility and Administrative cost and Fringe Benefits 
rate proposals.  The parties will address any differences
regarding Stanford University's accounting systems, 
allocation methodology, cost analysis studies and carry-
forward amounts, and will attempt to resolve these 
differences before the FY 1998 predetermined/fixed with 
carry-forward rates are negotiated.

     3.   The Government's use of any data submitted by 
Stanford from a cost analysis study in support of its 
proposals, either completed or partially completed, shall 
not be considered as acceptance or pre-approval of such 
study.

     4.   This agreement does not alter the Government's 
or Stanford University's previously stated positions on 
historical cost issues, Memorandum of Understanding (MOUs),
types of rates, or existing litigation.

     5.   Furthermore, the parties agree this bilateral 
provisional rate agreement for Stanford University's 
FY 1998 Facility and Administrative cost and Fringe 
Benefits rates will not be cited by either party for 
purposes other than as a provisional rate agreement 
between the parties on Stanford University's FY 1998 
Facility and Administrative cost and Fringe Benefits
rates.

     6.   Stanford University is not making any 
concessions or admissions about the allowability of 
any costs.  By agreeing to accept less than its 
estimated costs in these bilateral provisional rates, 
Stanford University is not stating or implying that any 
costs were ever unallowable or inappropriate, nor is it 
agreeing to a similar treatment of these costs in the 
future.

E.   DFARS WAIVER: Signature of this agreement by the 
authorized representatives of Stanford University and 
the Government acknowledges and affirms the 
University's request to waive the prohibition 
contained in DFARS 231.303(2) and the Government's 
exercise of its discretion contained in DFARS 
231.303(2). Stanford University's request to waive 
the prohibition is made to simplify the University's 
overall management of DOD cost reimbursements under 
DOD contracts.

The undersigned hereby declare that the terms of 
this document have been completely read and are
fully understood and voluntarily accepted.

The individuals executing this agreement are 
authorized to execute for and on behalf of the
parties for whom they sign and do so as their free 
and voluntary act, recognizing this agreement may
be canceled by either party, in which case the 
Government may establish unilateral provisional 
rates.


FOR STANFORD UNIVERSITY:                FOR THE GOVERNMENT:


                                                                                                                           
MARIANN BYERWALTER                      DEBORAH K. RAFI        
Vice President for Business Affairs     Contracting Officer      
and Chief Financial Officer
                                  
September 2, 1997                       September 2, 1997                  
Date                                    Date



For information concerning this document contact:
DEBORAH K. RAFI
OFFICE OF NAVAL RESEARCH
INDIRECT COSTS/ONR 242
800 N. QUINCY STREET
ARLINGTON, VA 22217
PHONE: (703) 696-5641    
EMAIL: rafid@onrhq.onr.navy.mil