CllgIL University of Illinois At Springfield 376000511 12/29/99  0136


             NEGOTIATION AGREEMENT

Institution: University of Illinois At Springfield
             Springfield, Illinois  62794-9243

The Facilities & Administrative (F&A) rate contained herein is for use on grants and
contracts with all Federal agencies in accordance with the cost principles mandated
by Office of Management And Budget (OMB) Circular A-21.  This rate shall be used for
forward pricing and billing purposes for the University of Illinois At Springfield's
Fiscal Year (FY) 2000 and 2001.  This rate agreement supersedes all previous rate
agreements/determinations for the University of Illinois At Springfield's
FY 2000/2001.

SECTION I: RATES - TYPE:   PREDETERMINED   (PRED)

F&A  RATE
                                                APPLICABLE 
TYPE   FROM      TO          RATE      BASE     TO              LOCATION

Pred   7/01/99   6/30/01     62.80%    (a)      All Programs    On-Campus 


                    DISTRIBUTION BASE

(a) Direct Salaries and wages.
                                                                                                                                         
SECTION II: GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS

A.  LIMITATION: Use of the rate contained in this agreement is subject to any statutory
or administrative limitations and is applicable to a given grant or contract only to
the extent that funds are available.  Acceptance of the rate agreed to herein is
predicated upon the following conditions: (1) that no costs other than those incurred
by the contractor/grantee were included in this indirect cost pool as finally
accepted and that such costs are legal obligations of the contractor/grantee and
allowable under governing cost principles; (2) that the same costs that have been
treated as indirect costs are not claimed as direct costs; (3) that similar types of
costs have been accorded consistent accounting treatment; and (4) the information
provided by the institution which was used as a basis for acceptance of the rate
agreed to herein and expressly relied upon by the Government in negotiating and
accepting the said rate is not subsequently found to be materially incomplete or
inaccurate.

B. ACCOUNTING CHANGES: The rate contained in this agreement is based on the
accounting system in effect at the time this agreement was negotiated.  Changes
to the method of accounting for costs which affect the amount of reimbursement
resulting from the use of this rate requires the approval of the authorized
representative of the cognizant agency.  Such changes include, but are not
limited to, changes in the charging of a particular type of cost from indirect
to direct.  Failure to obtain approval may result in cost disallowances.

C.  USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES: The rate in this agreement was negotiated in
accordance with the authority in Office of Management And Budget Circular A-21,
and should be applied to grants, contracts and other agreements covered by
Office of Management And Budget Circular A-21, subject to any limitations in
Part A above.  The institution may provide copies of the agreement to other
Federal agencies to give them early notification of the agreement contained
herein.

D.  QUALIFICATION:   The purpose of this agreement is to establish a Facilities
& Administrative cost rate for the period 1 July 1999 to 30 June 2001.  This
rate is based on the University of Illinois At Springfield's letter dated
29 November 1999, and the establishment of this rate by the Government does
not represent an agreement that the University's accounting systems and
allocation methodologies are accepted for Fiscal Year 2000 or 2001, or for any
subsequent fiscal year's rate negotiation.  
  
E.  The individuals executing this agreement are authorized to execute for and
on behalf of the parties for whom they sign and do so as their free and
voluntary act. This agreement may be canceled by either party, in which case
the Government may establish unilateral provisional rates.

For The University:                               For The Government

                                                                                                                                       
/s/                                               /s/    
Signature                                         Signature            
                   

Carl E. Long                                      Michael Kuc
Name                                              Name

Assistant Vice President for Business & Finance   Contracting Officer 
Vice Chancellor for Administrative Affairs        Title                                                                                     Title

12/21/99                                          12/29/99                                                                                                                                                   
Date                                              Date


For information concerning this document, contact:
MICHAEL KUC
OFFICE OF NAVAL RESEARCH
INDIRECT COSTS/ONR 242
800 N. QUINCY STREET, ROOM 704
ARLINGTON, VA 22217-5660
PHONE: (703) 696-2571
