CllgCO Colorado School of Mines 846000551   6/28/99   0107

                   PROVISIONAL RATE AGREEMENT

INSTITUTION:  COLORADO SCHOOL OF MINES
              GOLDEN, COLORADO  80401

The facilities and administrative cost and fringe benefit rates contained
herein are for use on grants, contracts and/or other agreements issued
or awarded to the Colorado School of Mines by all Federal Agencies of
the United States of America, in accordance with the cost principles
and provisions mandated by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB)
Circular A-21.  These rates shall be used for forward pricing and
billing purposes at the Colorado School of Mines for the period
1 July 1999 until amended.

SECTION I:  RATES - TYPE: PROVISIONAL  (PROV)

Facilities and Administration Rates:

        Effective Period                

Type    From     To              Rate    Base   Applicable To       Location

Prov    7/1/99   Until Amended   50.0%   (a)    Organized Research  On Campus 

Prov    7/1/99   Until Amended   26.6%   (a)    Organized Research  Off Campus
         
Prov    7/1/99   Until Amended   25.0%   (a)    Other Sponsored     On Campus
                                                Activities

Prov    7/1/99   Until Amended   25.0%   (a)    Other Sponsored     Off Campus
                                                Activities
Fringe Benefits Rates:

Type       From           To     Rate    Base   Applicable To         Location

Prov    7/1/99   Until Amended   21.1%   (b)    Administrative and    All
                                                Academic  Faculty

Prov   7/1/99    Until Amended   24.3%   (b)    Research Faculty      All
                              
Prov   7/1/99    Until Amended   12.6%   (b)    Temporary Faculty     All
                                                (PERA only), 
                                                Full/Part Time
                                                Temporary Classified

Prov   7/1/99    Until Amended   19.4%   (c)    Full/Part Time        All
                                                Permanent         
                                                Classified

                                 
                       DISTRIBUTION BASE:

(a)  Modified Total Direct Cost (MTDC), as defined in OMB Circular A-21, consisting of
all salaries and wages, fringe benefits, materials and supplies, services, travel and
subgrants and subcontracts up to the first $25,000 of each subgrant or subcontract
(regardless of the period covered by the subgrant or subcontract).  Equipment (defined
as having a useful life of more than one year and an acquisition cost which equals or
exceeds $2,000), capital expenditures, charges for patient care and tuition remission,
rental costs, scholarships, and fellowships as well as the portion of each subgrant and
subcontract in excess of $25,000 shall be excluded.

(b)  Faculty salaries and wages.

(c)  Classified (Administrative) salaries and wages.


SECTION II - GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS


A.   LIMITATIONS:  Use of the rates set forth under Section I is subject to any
statutory or administrative limitations and is applicable to a given grant, contract
or other agreement only to the extent that funds are available and consistent with any
and all limitations of cost clauses or provisions, if any, contained therein.
Acceptance of the rates agreed to herein is predicated upon all the following
conditions: (1) that no costs other than those incurred by the grantee/contractor
were included in the indirect cost pool as finally accepted and that all such costs
are legal obligations of the grantee/contractor and allowable under governing  cost
principles; (2) that the same costs that have been treated as indirect costs are not
claimed as direct costs; (3) that similar types of costs have been accorded consistent
accounting treatment; and (4) that the information provided by the contractor/grantee,
which was used as the basis for the acceptance of the rates agreed to herein and
expressly relied upon by the Government in establishing and accepting the said rates,
is not subsequently found to be materially incomplete or inaccurate.

B.   ACCOUNTING CHANGES: The rates contained in Section I of this agreement are based
on the accounting system in effect at the time this agreement was established.  Changes
to the method(s) of accounting for costs which affects the amount of reimbursement
resulting from the use of these rates require the written approval of the authorized
representative of the cognizant negotiating agency for the Government prior to
implementation of any such changes.  Such changes include but are not limited to changes
in the charging of a particular type of cost from indirect to direct.  Failure to obtain
such approval may result in subsequent cost disallowances.

C.   PROVISIONAL RATES: The provisional rates contained in this agreement are subject to
unilateral amendment by the Government or bilateral amendment by the contracting parties
at any time.

D.   APPLICATION OF INDIRECT COST RATES TO DoD CONTRACTS /
SUBCONTRACTS:  Signature of this agreement by the authorized representative of the
Colorado School of Mines and the Government, acknowledges and affirms the school's verbal
request for waiver of the prohibition contained in DFARS 231.303(1) and the Government's
exercise of its discretion under DFARS 231.303(2) to waive the prohibition in DFARS
231.303(1) for the facility and administration cost rates cited in Section I.

E.   USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES:  The rates set forth in Section I hereof were
established in accordance with and under the authority set forth in OMB Circular A-21.
Accordingly, such rates shall be applied to the extent provided in such circular to
grants, contracts and other agreements to which OMB Circular A-21 is applicable,
subject to any limitations in part A of this section.  Copies of this document may
be provided by either party to other Federal agencies which have or intend to issue
or award agreements using these rates, or to otherwise provide such agencies with
documentary notice of this determination and its terms and conditions. 


Acceptance:

FOR THE INSTITUTION:                         FOR THE GOVERNMENT:


/s/                                          /s/                                                    
ROBERT MOORE                                 DEBORAH K. RAFI        
Vice President of Business Affairs           Contracting Officer      
                                  
June 15, 1999                                June 28, 1999                              
Date                                         Date


For information concerning this document contact:
DEBORAH K. RAFI
OFFICE OF NAVAL RESEARCH
CODE 242/RM 704
800 N. QUINCY STREET, ARLINGTON, VA 22217
PHONE: (703) 696-5641
E-mail: rafid@onr.navy.mil  

