CllgMA Massachusetts Institute of Technology (CORRECTED COPY)  42103594 7/7/00 0172

                  PROVISIONAL RATE AGREEMENT 

Institution:    Massachusetts Institute of Technology  
                Cambridge, Massachusetts  02139   

The Employee Benefits rates contained herein are for use on grants,
contracts and/or other agreements issued or awarded to the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) by all Federal Agencies
of the United States of America, in accordance with the provisions
and cost principles mandated by Office of Management and Budget
(OMB) Circular A-21.  These rates shall be used for forward pricing
and billing purposes beginning with MIT's Fiscal Year 2001. This rate
agreement supersedes all previous rate agreements/determinations
for Fiscal Year 2001.  

SECTION I: RATES - TYPE:  PROVISIONAL (PROV) 

TYPE   FROM   TO              RATE     BASE   APPLICABLE TO      LOCATION
Employee Benefits Rates:

PROV   7/1/00  Until Amended  21.0%    (a)    All Non-Student    On Campus
                                              Employees

PROV   7/1/00  Until Amended  20.00%   (b)    All Non-Student    Off Campus
                                              Employees

Vacation Leave Rates:    

PROV   7/1/00  Until Amended  10.0%    (c)    Research Employees  On Campus

PROV   7/1/00  Until Amended   9.0%    (d)    Research Employees  Off Campus

                             Distribution Bases
                             
     (a)    The MIT On-campus salary base consists of salaries and wages of all
            non-student MIT employees charged to MIT general (non-research)
            accounts and MIT Research On-campus accounts. 

     (b)    The MIT Off-campus salary base consists of salaries and wages of all
            non-student MIT employees charged to MIT Research Off-campus accounts
            and Lincoln Laboratory. 

     (c)    The MIT Vacation Leave On campus base consists of salaries
            and wages of all non-student, non-faculty MIT research personnel
            (Research Staff, Hourly Personnel, Project Support Staff, and Tech/Admin
            Support) charged to MIT Research On-campus accounts. 

     (d)    The MIT Vacation Leave Off campus salary base consists of salaries
            and wages of all non-student, non-faculty MIT research personnel
            (Research Staff, Hourly Personnel, Project Support Staff, and
            Tech/Admin Support) charged to MIT Research Off-campus accounts
            and Lincoln Laboratory. 
     
     SECTION II - GENERAL
                                                                                                                                                                 
            A.     LIMITATIONS:  Use of the rates set forth under Section I is
            subject to any statutory or administrative limitations and is
            applicable to a given grant or contract only to the extent that
            funds are available.  Acceptance of the rates agreed to herein
            is predicated upon all of the following conditions: (1) that no
            costs other than those incurred by the grantee/contractor were
            included in this indirect cost pool as finally accepted and that
            such costs are legal obligations of the grantee/contractor and
            allowable under governing cost principles, (2) that the same
            costs that have been treated as indirect costs are not claimed as
            direct costs, (3) that similar types of costs have been accorded
            consistent accounting treatment, and (4) that the information
            provided by the grantee/contractor which was used as a basis for
            acceptance of the rates agreed to herein, and expressly relied
            upon by the Government in establishing and accepting the said
            rates is not subsequently found to be materially incomplete or
            inaccurate.          
                           
            B.     ACCOUNTING CHANGES:  The provisional rates contained in
            Section I of this agreement are based on the accounting system
            in effect at the time the agreement was established.  Changes
            to the method(s) of accounting for costs which affect the amount
            of reimbursement resulting from the use of these rates require
            the prior approval of the authorized representative of the
            cognizant negotiation agency.  Such changes include but are not
            limited to changes in the charging of a particular type of cost
            from indirect to direct.  Failure to obtain such approval may
            result in subsequent cost disallowances.
     
            C.     USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES:  The rates set forth in
            Section I were established in accordance with and under the
            authority set forth in OMB Circular A-21.  Accordingly, such
            rates shall be applied to the extent provided in such Circular
            to grants and contracts to which OMB Circular A-21 applies,
            subject to any limitations in part A of this section.  Copies
            of this document may be provided by either party to other federal
            agencies which have or intend to issue or award sponsored
            agreements using these rates or to otherwise provide such agencies
            with documentary notice of this agreement and its terms and
            conditions.
     
            D.   PROVISIONAL RATES:  The provisional rates contained in this
            agreement are subject to unilateral amendment by the Government
            or bilateral amendment by the contracting parties at any time.
     
    E.      SPECIAL REMARKS: 
     
         1.  Off Campus rates are used when the preponderance of effort
         is performed at Lincoln Laboratory, Haystack Observatory or
         other off-site locations.
     
         2. The establishment of these rates by the Government does not
         represent an agreement with accounting systems and methodologies.
          
     Accepted:
     
     FOR THE MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE           FOR THE U.S. GOVERNMENT:
     OF TECHNOLOGY:
     
     
     /S/                                       /s/
     Julie T. Norris                           Deborah K. Rafi
     Director, Office of Sponsored Programs    Contracting Officer                                 
     
     
     7 July 2000                               7 July 2000
     Date                                      Date
     
                                   
     
     For information concerning this document contact:
                      Deborah K. Rafi
                 Office of Naval Research
                      ONR 242/Rm 704
                   800 N. Quincy Street
                   Arlington, VA  22217
                      (703) 696-5641
                E-mail: rafid@onr.navy.mil
     
     