CllgCA California Institute of Technology 951643307 8/23/00 0190

                 NEGOTIATION AGREEMENT

INSTITUTION:	CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
		PASADENA, CALIFORNIA  91125

The Facilities and Administration cost rates, Staff Benefit and Tuition Remission rates
contained herein are for use on grants, contracts and/or other agreements issued or
awarded to the California Institute of Technology by all Federal Agencies of the United
States of America, in accordance with the cost principles and provisions mandated by
the OMB Circular A-21.  These rates shall be used for forward pricing and billing
purposes at the California Institute of Technology for Fiscal Year 2000.  This rate
agreement supersedes all previous rate agreements or determinations for fiscal year
2000.  

SECTION I: RATES-TYPE:	FIXED AND CARRY-FORWARD PROVISIONS (FIXED)
				PREDETERMINED (PRED)

 FACILITIES AND ADMINISTRATION RATE (Indirect Cost):

Type	From	 To 	     Rate        Base	Location	Applicable To	

Fixed   10/1/99  9/30/00     56.00%      (a)	On Campus	Organized Research
                                                                (except JPL) 

Fixed   10/1/99  9/30/00     26.00%      (a)	Off Campus	Organized Research
                                                                (except JPL) 
STAFF BENEFIT RATE:

Type	From	 To 	     Rate        Base	Location	Applicable To	

Fixed   10/1/99  9/30/00     22.50%      (b)	All		Organized Research
                                                                (except JPL)

TUITION REMISSION RATE:
Type	From	 To 	     Rate        Base	Location	Applicable To	

Pred    10/1/99  9/30/00     60.00%      (c)	All		Organized Research
                                                                (except JPL) 

                          DISTRIBUTION BASES:

  (a)	Modified Total Direct Cost (MTDC), as defined in OMB Circular A-21,
consisting of all salaries and wages, fringe benefits, materials and supplies,
services, travel and subgrants and subcontracts up to the first $25,000 of each
subgrant or subcontract (regardless of the period covered by the subgrant or
subcontract).  Equipment (defined as having a useful life of two or more years,
and an acquisition cost of $500 or more per unit), capital expenditures, charges
for patient care and tuition remission, rental costs, scholarships, and fellowships
as well as the portion of each subgrant and subcontract in excess of $25,000 is
excluded.

  (b)	Total direct salaries and wages of faculty, staff (excluded graduate
assistants) including vacation, holiday, and sick leave.  (Leave consisting of
accrued paid leave for salary and hourly employees and actual paid leave for
monthly employees.)

  (c)	Total direct salaries and wages of graduate assistants including
vacation, holiday, and sick leave. (Leave consisting of actual paid leave for
Graduate Assistants).

SECTION II - GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS

A.  LIMITATIONS:  Use of the rates set forth under Section I is subject to
anystatutory or administrative limitations, and is applicable to a given
grant, contract or other agreement only to the extent that funds are
available and consistent with any and all limitations of cost clauses or
provisions, if any, contained therein.  Acceptance of the rates agreed to
herein is predicated upon all the following conditions: (1) that no costs
other than those incurred by the grantee/contractor were included in the
indirect cost pool as finally accepted and that all such costs are legal
obligations of the grantee/contractor and allowable under governing cost
principles; (2) that the same costs that have been treated as indirect
costs are not claimed as direct costs; (3) that similar types of costs
have been accorded consistent accounting treatment; and (4) that the
information provided by the contractor/grantee, which was used as the basis
for the acceptance of the rates agreed to herein and expressly relied upon
by the Government in negotiating and accepting the said rates, is not
subsequently found to be materially incomplete or inaccurate.

B.  ACCOUNTING CHANGES: The rates set forth in Section I of this agreement
are based on the accounting system in effect at the time this agreement was
negotiated; except as noted in paragraph H. below. Changes to the method(s)
of accounting for costs which affects the amount of reimbursement resulting
from the use of these rates require the written approval of the authorized
representative of the cognizant negotiating agency for the Government prior
to implementation of any such changes.  Such changes include but are not
limited to changes in the charging of a particular type of cost from indirect
to direct.  Failure to obtain such approval may result in subsequent cost
disallowances.

C.  FIXED RATES AND CARRY-FORWARD PROVISIONS: The rates set forth in Section I
of this agreement are based on estimates of the costs and proposed accounting
methodologies for FY 2000. When actual costs for FY 2000 are determined,
adjustments will be applied to a subsequent rate negotiation to recognize the
difference between the estimated costs used to establish the fixed rates and
carry-forward provisions and the negotiated actual costs.  Adjustments, as
necessary, may also be made for any cost impacts of proposed accounting
changes (see paragraph H. below).

D.  PREDETERMINED TUITION REMISSION RATE: The predetermined Tuition Remission
rate set forth in Section I of this agreement for FY 2000 is subject only to
adjustment in accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-21.

E.  CARRY-FORWARDS: The Staff Benefits rates set forth in Section I are
inclusive of the following carry-forward amounts:

   1. FY95 Staff Benefits $949,470 under-recovery is liquidated in the FY00
Fixed Staff Benefits rate.

   2.   FY96 Staff Benefits $500,000 over-recovery is liquidated in the FY00
Fixed Staff Benefits rate. This result in a $1,152,965 over-recovery balance
to be liquidated in a future rate.

F.  USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES: The rates set forth in Section I hereof were
negotiated in accordance with and under the authority set forth in OMB
Circular A-21.  Accordingly, such rates shall be applied to the extent
provided in such circular to grants and contracts to which OMB Circular A-21
is applicable, subject to any limitations in part A of this section.  Copies
of this document may be provided by either party to other Federal agencies
which have or intend to issue or award grants and contracts using these rates
or to otherwise provide such agencies with documentary notice of this agreement
and its terms and conditions.
 
G.  DFARS WAIVER: Signature of this agreement by the authorized representative
of California Institute of Technology and the Government acknowledges and affirms
the Institute's request to waive the prohibition contained in DFARS 231.303(1) and
the Government's exercise of its discretion contained in DFARS 231.303(2) to waive
the prohibition in DFARS 231.303(1).  The waiver request by California Institute of
Technology is made to simplify the Institute's overall management of DOD cost
reimbursements under DOD contracts.

H.  SPECIAL REMARKS: 

    (1) The Government's agreement with the rates set forth in Section I is not an
 acceptance of the California Institute of Technology's (Caltech) accounting system,
cost classifications, allocation methodologies, cost analysis studies, Observatory
costing methods, and proposed accounting changes included in Caltech's 30 July 1999
FY 2000 forward pricing proposal and supporting data.  Any reliance by the Government
on cost data or methodologies submitted by Caltech is on a non-precedence-setting
basis and does not imply Government acceptance.  The parties will continue to address
any differences regarding accounting systems, cost classifications, allocation
methodologies, cost analysis studies, Observatory costing methods, and proposed
accounting changes, as well as resolve any cost impact adjustments, as necessary.
The parties will attempt to resolve these differences before finalization of FY 2000
actual costs.

   (2) Observatory Facilities - The rates set forth in Section I do not include any
indirect costs for Caltech's Observatory facilities. The parties acknowledge that they
are seeking to resolve the matter of observatory costs and agree that by executing
this agreement, neither party waives its right to seek an adjustment of the Facilities
and Administrative rate to reflect such costs.

The undersigned hereby declare that the terms of this document have been completely
read and are fully understood and voluntarily accepted.

The individuals executing this agreement are authorized to execute for and on behalf
of the parties for whom they sign and do so as their free and voluntary act.

FOR THE CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE 			FOR THE U.S. GOVERNMENT:
   OF TECHNOLOGY:


/s/			                        /s/
ALBERT  G. HORVATH				DEBORAH K. RAFI    
Associate Vice President for Finance		Contracting Officer
  And Controller


22 August 2000					23 August 2000		
Date						Date

for information concerning this agreement contact:
OFFICE OF NAVAL RESEARCH
DEBORAH K. RAFI
INDIRECT COSTS/ONR 242/RM 704
800 N. QUINCY STREET
ARLINGTON, VA  22217
PHONE:  (703) 696-5641
E-mail: rafid@onr.navy.mil



 

