CllgLA  Louisiana Tech University  726000792  6/6/00  0161

              NEGOTIATION AGREEMENT

INSTITUTION:  LOUISIANA TECH UNIVERSITY
              RUSTON, LA 71272-0029

The Facilities and Administrative (F&A) rates contained herein
are for use on all grants and/or contracts issued or awarded to
Louisiana Tech University by all Federal agencies of the United
States of America in accordance with the cost principles
mandated by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular
A-21. These rates shall be used for forward pricing and billing
purposes for the Louisiana Tech University=s Fiscal Years 2001,
2002 and 2003. This rate agreement supersedes all previous rate
agreements/determinations for Fiscal Years 2001, 2002 and 2003.

SECTION I: RATES - TYPE: PREDETERMINED (PRED)

        EFFECTIVE PERIOD

Type    From	 To        Rate      Location   Base  Applicable to 

Pred    7-1-00   6-30-03   53.13%    On-Campus  (a)   All Programs

Pred    7-1-00   6-30-03   22.65%    Off-Campus (a)   All Programs

DISTRIBUTION BASE

(a) Direct salaries and wages including vacation, holiday, sick pay
and other paid absences, but excluding all other fringe benefits.

A.  LIMITATIONS:  Use of the rates set forth under Section I of this
agreement is expressly subject to any statutory or administrative
limitations and is applicable to a given grant, contract, or other
agreement only to the extent that funds are available and consistent
with any and all limitations of cost clauses or provisions, if any,
contained therein.  Acceptance of any or all of the rates agreed to
herein is predicated upon all the following conditions: (1) that no
costs other than those incurred by the grantee/contractor were
included in its indirect cost pool as finally accepted and that all
such costs are legal obligations of the grantee/contractor and
allowable under the governing and applicable cost principles; (2)
that the same costs that have been treated as indirect costs are not
claimed as direct costs; (3) that similar types of costs have been
accorded consistent accounting treatment; and (4) that the information
provided by the contractor/grantee, which was used as the basis for
the acceptance of the rate(s) agreed to herein and expressly relied
upon by the Government in negotiating and accepting the said rates, is
not subsequently found to be materially incomplete or inaccurate.

B.  ACCOUNTING CHANGES: The predetermined rates contained in Section
I of this agreement are based on the accounting system in effect at
the time this agreement was negotiated. Changes to the method(s) of
accounting for costs which affects the amount of reimbursement
resulting from the use of these rates requires the express and written
approval of the authorized representative of the cognizant negotiating
agency for the Government prior to implementation of any such changes.
Such changes include but are not limited to changes in the charging of
a particular type of cost from indirect to direct.  Failure on the part
of the grantee/contractor to obtain the required approval may result in
subsequent cost disallowances.

C.  PREDETERMINED  RATES: The predetermined rates contained in this
agreement are not subject to adjustment in accordance with the
provisions of OMB Circular A-21, subject to the limitations contained
in Part A of this section.

D.  USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES: The rates set forth in SECTION I
hereof were negotiated in accordance with and under the authority set
forth in OMB Circular A-21. Accordingly, such rates shall be applied,
to the extent provided in such circular, to grants and contracts to
which OMB Circular A-21 is applicable, subject to any limitations in
part A of this section. Copies of this document may be provided by
either party to other Federal agencies which have or intend to issue
or award grants and/or contracts to Louisiana Tech University to use
the stated rates or to otherwise provide such agencies with
documentary notice of this agreement and its terms and conditions.
              

FOR THE UNIVERSITY                            FOR THE GOVERNMENT


By:   /S/                                     By:  /S/
      JOSEPH R. THOMAS, JR.                   MICHAEL KUC
      Vice President and Comptroller          Contracting Officer


Date: 5/31/00                                 Date: 6/6/00







FOR INFORMATION CONCERNING THIS AGREEMENT CONTACT:

OFFICE OF NAVAL RESEARCH
MICHAEL KUC
INDIRECT COST DIVISION/ONR 242
800 N. QUINCY STREET
BCT # 1, ROOM 704
ARLINGTON, VA 22217
(703) 696-2571 or (703) 696-4430 FAX







2


