CllgMA  Massachusetts Institute of Technology 42103594 1/26/01 0195

                NEGOTIATION AGREEMENT

Institution:    MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY	
                CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS, 02139

The Employee Benefits and Leave rates contained herein are for use on grants, contracts
and/or other agreements issued or awarded to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
(MIT) by all Federal Agencies of the United States of America, in accordance with the
provisions and cost principles mandated by Office of Management and Budget (OMB)
Circular A-21.  These rates shall be used for forward pricing and billing purposes for
MIT's Fiscal Year 2001. This rate agreement supersedes all previous rate agreements/
determinations for FY 2001.  

SECTION I: RATES - TYPE: FIXED WITH CARRYFORWARD (AFIXED@) 

TYPE	FROM    TO          RATE       BASE    APPLICABLE TO        LOCATION

Employee Benefits Rates:

FIXED	7/1/00	6/30/01	    21.0%      (a)     All Non-Student      On Campus
                                               Employees

FIXED   7/1/00	6/30/01	    20.0%      (b)     All Non-Student      Off Campus
                                               Employees
Vacation Leave Rates:	

FIXED   7/1/00	6/30/01	    10.0%      (c)     Research Employees   On Campus

FIXED	7/1/00	6/30/01	     9.0%      (d)     Research Employees   Off Campus

                          Distribution Bases

(a)  The MIT On-campus salary base consists of salaries and wages of all non-student
     MIT employees charged to MIT general (non-research) accounts and MIT Research
     On-campus accounts. 

(b)  The MIT Off-campus salary base consists of salaries and wages of all non-student
     MIT employees charged to MIT Research Off-campus accounts and Lincoln Laboratory. 

(c)  The MIT Vacation Leave On campus base consists of salaries and wages of all
     non-student, non-faculty MIT research personnel (Research Staff, Hourly
     Personnel, Project Support Staff, and Tech/Admin Support) charged to MIT
     Research On-campus accounts. 

(d)  The MIT Vacation Leave Off campus salary base consists of salaries and wages of all
     non-student, non-faculty MIT research personnel (Research Staff, Hourly Personnel,
     Project Support Staff, and Tech/Admin Support) charged to MIT Research Off-campus
     accounts and Lincoln Laboratory. 


SECTION II - GENERAL                                                    

A.  LIMITATIONS:  Use of the rates set forth under Section I is subject to any statutory
or administrative limitations and is applicable to a given grant or contract only to the
extent that funds are available.  Acceptance of the rates agreed to herein is predicated
upon all of the following conditions: (1) that no costs other than those incurred by the
grantee/contractor were included in this indirect cost pool as finally accepted and that
such costs are legal obligations of the grantee/contractor and allowable under governing
cost principles, (2) that the same costs that have been treated as indirect costs are
not claimed as direct costs, (3) that similar types of costs have been accorded
consistent accounting treatment, and (4) that the information provided by the grantee/
contractor which was used as a basis for acceptance of the rates agreed to herein, and
expressly relied upon by the Government in negotiating and accepting the said rates is
not subsequently found to be materially incomplete or inaccurate.          

B.  ACCOUNTING CHANGES: The fixed rates contained in Section I of this agreement are
based on the accounting system in effect at the time the agreement was negotiated.
Changes to the method(s) of accounting for costs, which affect the amount of
reimbursement resulting from the use of these rates, require the prior approval of
the authorized representative of the cognizant negotiation agency.  Such changes
include but are not limited to changes in the charging of a particular type of cost
from indirect to direct.  Failure to obtain such approval may result in subsequent
cost disallowances. 

C.  USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES: The rates set forth in Section I were negotiated
in accordance with and under the authority contained in OMB Circular A-21.
Accordingly, such rates shall be applied to the extent provided in such Circular to
grants and contracts to which OMB Circular A-21 applies, subject to any limitations
in part A of this section.  Copies of this document may be provided by either party
to other federal agencies which have or intend to issue or award sponsored
agreements using these rates or to otherwise provide such agencies with
documentary notice of this agreement and its terms and conditions.

D.  FIXED RATES: The fixed rates in this agreement are based on estimates of the
costs for FY 2001.  When actual costs for the period is determined, an adjustment
will be made to the rates of a future year to recognize the difference between the
FY 2001 estimated costs used to establish the fixed rates and the negotiated actual
FY 2001 costs.

F.  SPECIAL REMARKS: 

    1.  Off Campus rates are used when the preponderance of effort is performed at
Lincoln Laboratory, Haystack Observatory or other off-site locations.

    2. The establishment of these rates by the Government does not represent an
agreement with accounting systems and methodologies. 

Accepted:	

FOR MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE			FOR THE U.S. GOVERNMENT:
OF TECHNOLOGY:


/s/                                             /s/
JULIE T. NORRIS					DEBORAH K. RAFI
Director, Office Of Sponsored Programs		Contracting Officer

26 January 2001               			26 January, 2001
Date						Date


For information concerning this document contact:
	Deborah K. Rafi
	Office of Naval Research
	Indirect Costs/ONR 242
	800 N. Quincy Street
	Arlington, VA  22217
	(703) 696-5641
    E-mail: rafid@onr.navy.mil
 
