CllgCO  Colorado School of Mines  846000551 5/5/00 0189

              NEGOTIATION AGREEMENT

INSTITUTION:  COLORADO SCHOOL OF MINES
              GOLDEN, COLORADO  80401

The Facilities & Administrative cost and Fringe Benefits rates contained herein are for
use on grants, contracts and/or other agreements issued or awarded to the Colorado
School of Mines by all Federal Agencies of the United States of America, in accordance
with the provisions and cost principles mandated by the Office of Management and Budget
(OMB) Circular A-21.  These rates shall be used for forward pricing and billing purposes
at the Colorado School of Mines for Fiscal Year 2000.  This rate agreement supersedes
all previous rate agreements or determinations for Fiscal Year 2000.

SECTION I:  RATES - TYPE: PREDETERMINED (PRED) AND FIXED

Facilities & Administrative Rates (Indirect Cost):

      Effective Period    On Campus Off Campus                
Type  From    To        Rate    Rate   Base   Applicable To          

Pred  7/1/99  6/30/00   50.0%   26.6%  (a)    Organized Research

Pred  7/1/99  6/30/00   25.0%   25.0%  (a)    Other Sponsored Activities

Fringe Benefits Rates:
Type  From    To        Rate    Base          Applicable To          Location

Fixed 7/1/99  6/30/00   21.1%   (b)           Administrative and     All
                                              Academic  Faculty

Fixed 7/1/99  6/30/00   24.3%   (b)           Research Faculty       All
                              
Fixed 7/1/99  6/30/00   12.6%   (b)           Temporary Faculty      All
                                              (PERA only) & Full/
                                              Part Time Temporary
                                              Classified

Fixed 7/1/99  6/30/00   19.4%   (c)           Full/Part Time         All
                                              Permanent      
                                              Classified


                            DISTRIBUTION BASE:

(a)  Modified Total Direct Cost (MTDC), as defined in OMB Circular A-21, consisting of
all salaries and wages, fringe benefits, materials and supplies, services, travel and
subgrants and subcontracts up to the first $25,000 of each subgrant or subcontract
(regardless of the period covered by the subgrant or subcontract).  Equipment (defined
as having a useful life of more than one year and an acquisition cost which equals or
exceeds $2,000), capital expenditures, charges for patient care and tuition remission,
rental costs, scholarships, and fellowships as well as the portion of each subgrant
and subcontract in excess of $25,000 shall be excluded.

(b)  Faculty salaries and wages.

(c)  Classified (Administrative) salaries and wages.

SECTION II - GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS

A.  LIMITATIONS:  Use of the rates set forth under Section I is subject to any statutory
or administrative limitations and is applicable to a given grant, contract or other
agreement only to the extent that funds are available and consistent with any and all
limitations of cost clauses or provisions, if any, contained therein.  Acceptance of
the rates agreed to herein is predicated upon all the following conditions: (1) that no
costs other than those incurred by the grantee/contractor were included in the indirect
cost pool as finally accepted and that all such costs are legal obligations of the
grantee/contractor and allowable under governing  cost principles; (2) that the same
costs that have been treated as indirect costs are not claimed as direct costs; (3) that
similar types of costs have been accorded consistent accounting treatment; and (4) that
the information provided by the contractor/grantee, which was used as the basis for the
acceptance of the rates agreed to herein and expressly relied upon by the Government in
negotiating and accepting the said rates, is not subsequently found to be materially
incomplete or inaccurate.

B.  ACCOUNTING CHANGES: The rates contained in Section I of this agreement are based on
the accounting system in effect at the time this agreement was established.  Changes to
the method(s) of accounting for costs which affects the amount of reimbursement
resulting from the use of these rates require the written approval of the authorized
representative of the cognizant negotiating agency for the Government prior to
implementation of any such changes.  Such changes include but are not limited to changes
in the charging of a particular type of cost from indirect to direct.  Failure to obtain
such approval may result in subsequent cost disallowances.

C.  PREDETERMINED RATES: The predetermined rates contained in this agreement are not
subject to adjustment in accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-21, subject to
the limitations contained in Part A of this section.

D.  FIXED RATES: The fixed rates in this agreement are based on estimates of the costs
for FY 2000.  When actual costs for this period are determined, an adjustment will be
made to the rates of a future year to recognize the difference between the FY 2000
estimated costs used to establish the fixed rates and the negotiated actual FY 2000
costs.

E.  USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES:  The rates set forth in Section I hereof were
established in accordance with and under the authority set forth in OMB Circular
A-21.  Accordingly, such rates shall be applied to the extent provided in such circular
to grants, contracts and 0other agreements to which OMB Circular A-21 is applicable,
subject to any limitations in part A of this section.  Copies of this document may be
provided by either party to other Federal agencies which have or intend to issue or
award agreements using these rates, or to otherwise provide such agencies with
documentary notice of this determination and its terms and conditions. 

F.  APPLICATION OF INDIRECT COST RATES TO DoD CONTRACTS/SUBCONTRACTS:  Signature
of this agreement by the authorized representative of the Colorado School of Mines and
the Government, acknowledges and affirms the Institutions request for waiver of the
prohibition contained in DFARS 231.303(1) and the Government's exercise of its
discretion under DFARS 231.303(2) to waive the prohibition in DFARS
231.303(1) for the facility and administration cost rates cited in Section I.


Accepted:

FOR THE INSTITUTION:                         FOR THE GOVERNMENT:


/s/                                          /s/                                                
ROBERT MOORE                                 DEBORAH K. RAFI          
Vice President for Finance & Operations      Contracting Officer      

                                  
5 May 2000                                   5 May 2000                                 
Date                                         Date



For information concerning this document contact:
DEBORAH K. RAFI                    PHONE: (703) 696-5641
OFFICE OF NAVAL RESEARCH           EMAIL: rafid@onr.navy.mil
INDIRECT COSTS CODE 242
BCT #1,  Rm 704
800 N. QUINCY STREET, ARLINGTON, VA 22217
