CllgCA  California Institute of Technology  95614330711/17/00  0191

                NEGOTIATION AGREEMENT

INSTITUTION:	CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
  		PASADENA, CALIFORNIA  91125

The Facilities and Administration cost rates, Staff Benefit and Tuition Remission
rates contained herein are for use on grants, contracts and/or other agreements
issued or awarded to the California Institute of Technology by all Federal
Agencies of the United States of America, in accordance with the cost principles
and provisions mandated by the OMB Circular A-21.  These rates shall be used for
forward pricing and billing purposes at the California Institute of Technology
for Fiscal Year 2001.  This rate agreement supersedes all previous rate
agreements or determinations for fiscal year 2001.  

SECTION I: RATES-TYPE:	FIXED AND CARRY-FORWARD PROVISIONS (FIXED)
			PREDETERMINED (PRED)

FACILITIES AND ADMINISTRATION RATE (Indirect Cost):

Type   From	To 	   Rate        Base	Location	Applicable To	

Fixed  10/1/00  9/30/01	   58.00%      (a)	On Campus	Organized Research
                                                                (except JPL) 

Fixed  10/1/00  9/30/01    26.13%      (a)	Off Campus	Organized Research
                                                                (except JPL) 
STAFF BENEFIT RATE:
Type   From	To 	   Rate        Base	Location	Applicable To	

Fixed  10/1/00  9/30/01    22.50%      (b)	All		Organized Research
                                                                (except JPL)
TUITION REMISSION RATE:

Type   From	To 	   Rate        Base	Location	Applicable To	

Pred   10/1/00  9/30/01    60.00%      (c)	All		Organized Research
                                                                (except JPL)

                          DISTRIBUTION BASES:

    (a)	Modified Total Direct Cost (MTDC), as defined in OMB Circular A-21, consisting
of all salaries and wages, fringe benefits, materials and supplies, services, travel
and subgrants and subcontracts up to the first $25,000 of each subgrant or subcontract
(regardless of the period covered by the subgrant or subcontract).  Equipment (defined
as having a useful life of one year and an acquisition cost of $5000 or more per unit),
capital expenditures, charges for patient care and tuition remission, rental costs,
scholarships, and fellowships as well as the portion of each subgrant and subcontract
in excess of $25,000 is excluded.

    (b)	Total direct salaries and wages of faculty, staff (excluded graduate
assistants) including vacation, holiday, and sick leave.  (Leave consisting of 
accrued paid leave for salary and hourly employees and actual paid leave for monthly
employees.)

    (c)	Total direct salaries and wages of graduate assistants including vacation,
holiday, and sick leave. (Leave consisting of actual paid leave for Graduate
Assistants).

SECTION II - GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS

A.  LIMITATIONS:  Use of the rates set forth under Section I is subject to any
statutory or administrative limitations, and is applicable to a given grant,
contract or other agreement only to the extent that funds are available and
consistent with any and all limitations of cost clauses or provisions, if any,
contained therein.  Acceptance of the rates agreed to herein is predicated upon
all the following conditions: (1) that no costs other than those incurred by the
grantee/contractor were included in the indirect cost pool as finally accepted
and that all such costs are legal obligations of the grantee/contractor and
allowable under governing cost principles; (2) that the same costs that have
been treated as indirect costs are not claimed as direct costs; (3) that similar
types of costs have been accorded consistent accounting treatment; and (4) that
the information provided by the contractor/grantee, which was used as the basis
for the acceptance of the rates agreed to herein and expressly relied upon by the
Government in negotiating and accepting the said rates, is not subsequently found
to be materially incomplete or inaccurate.

B.  ACCOUNTING CHANGES: The rates set forth in Section I of this agreement are
based on the accounting system in effect at the time this agreement was negotiated;
except as noted in paragraph H. below. Changes to the method(s) of accounting for
costs which affects the amount of reimbursement resulting from the use of these
rates require the written approval of the authorized representative of the cognizant
negotiating agency for the Government prior to implementation of any such changes.
Such changes include but are not limited to changes in the charging of a particular
type of cost from indirect to direct.  Failure to obtain such approval may result
in subsequent cost disallowances.

C.  FIXED RATES AND CARRY-FORWARD PROVISIONS: The rates set forth in Section I of
this agreement are based on estimates of the costs and proposed accounting
methodologies for FY 2001. When actual costs for FY 2001 are determined, adjustments
will be applied to a subsequent rate negotiation to recognize the difference between
the estimated costs used to establish the fixed rates and carry-forward provisions
and the negotiated actual costs.  Adjustments, as necessary, may also be made for
any cost impacts of proposed accounting changes (see paragraph H. below).

D.  PREDETERMINED TUITION REMISSION RATE: The predetermined Tuition Remission rate
set forth in Section I of this agreement for FY 2001 is subject only to adjustment
in accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-21.

E.  CARRY-FORWARDS: The rates set forth in Section I are inclusive of the following
carry-forward amounts:

F.  USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES: The rates set forth in Section I hereof were
negotiated in accordance with and under the authority set forth in OMB Circular
A-21.  Accordingly, such rates shall be applied to the extent provided in such
circular to grants and contracts to which OMB Circular A-21 is applicable, subject
to any limitations in part A of this section.  Copies of this document may be
provided by either party to other Federal agencies which have or intend to issue or
award grants and contracts using these rates or to otherwise provide such agencies
with documentary notice of this agreement and its terms and conditions.
 
G.  DFARS WAIVER: Signature of this agreement by the authorized representative of
California Institute of Technology and the Government acknowledges and affirms the
Institute?s request to waive the prohibition contained in DFARS 231.303(1) and the
Government?s exercise of its discretion contained in DFARS 231.303(2) to waive the
prohibition in DFARS 231.303(1).  The waiver request by California Institute of
Technology is made to simplify the Institute?s overall management of DOD cost
reimbursements under DOD contracts.

H.  SPECIAL REMARKS: The Government's agreement with the rates set forth in Section
I is not an acceptance of the California Institute of Technology?s (Caltech)
accounting system, cost classifications, allocation methodologies, cost analysis
studies, Observatory costing methods, and proposed accounting changes included in
Caltech?s 31 May 2000 FY 2001 forward pricing proposal and supporting data.  Any
reliance by the Government on cost data or methodologies submitted by Caltech is
on a non-precedence-setting basis and does not imply Government acceptance.  The
parties will continue to address any differences regarding accounting systems,
cost classifications, allocation methodologies, cost analysis studies, and
proposed accounting changes, as well as resolve any cost impact adjustments, as
necessary.  The parties will attempt to resolve these differences before
finalization of FY 2001 actual costs.

The undersigned hereby declare that the terms of this document have been
completely read and are fully understood and voluntarily accepted.

The individuals executing this agreement are authorized to execute for and on
behalf of the parties for whom they sign and do so as their free and voluntary
act.

FOR THE CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE 			FOR THE U.S. GOVERNMENT:
   OF TECHNOLOGY:


/s/						/s/				
WILLIAM A. JENKINS				DEBORAH K. RAFI        
Vice President for Business and Finance		Contracting Officer      


17 November, 2000				17 November, 2000		
Date	 					Date


for information concerning this agreement contact:
OFFICE OF NAVAL RESEARCH
DEBORAH K. RAFI
INDIRECT COSTS/ONR 242/RM 704
800 N. QUINCY STREET
ARLINGTON, VA  22217
PHONE:  (703) 696-5641
E-mail: rafid@onr.navy.mil
