CllgLA  Louisiana Tech University  726000792  9/8/00  0183
                                                                       
                NEGOTIATION AGREEMENT

INSTITUTION:	LOUISIANA TECH UNIVERSITY
                RUSTON,  LA  71272-0029

The Fringe Benefit rates contained herein are for use on all grants and/or contracts
issued or awarded to Louisiana Tech University by all Federal agencies of the United
States of America in accordance with the cost principles mandated by the Office of
Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-21. These rates shall be used for forward
pricing and billing purposes for Louisiana Tech University=s  Fiscal Year 2001.
This rate agreement supersedes all previous rate agreements/determinations for
Fiscal Year 2001.
                                                                       
SECTION I: RATES - TYPE: PREDETERMINED (PRED)
                 
Type    From	  To        Rate   Base    Applicable To

Pred    7-1-00    6-30-01   10.2%  (a)     No Retirement (*)

Pred    7-1-00    6-30-01   24.4%  (a)     Teacher Retirement 

Pred    7-1-00    6-30-01   23.2%  (a)     State Retirement 

Pred    7-1-00    6-30-01   16.9%  (a)     Social Security

Pred    7-1-00    6-30-01   24.4%  (a)     Optional Retirement


(*) ANo Retirement@ includes employees under DROP, returning employees retired under any
state retirement system, and some foreign employees not subject to Social Security.

                        DISTRIBUTION BASE

(a)  Salaries and wages of respective retirement program.

A.  LIMITATIONS:  Use of the rates set forth under Section I of this agreement is
expressly subject to any statutory or administrative limitations and is applicable to
a givengrant, contract, or other agreement only to the extent that funds are available
and consistent with any and all limitations of cost clauses or provisions, if any,
contained therein.  Acceptance of any or all of the rates agreed to herein is
predicated upon all the following conditions: (1) that no costs other than those
incurred by the grantee/contractor were included in its indirect cost pool as finally
accepted and that all such costs are legal obligations of the grantee/contractor and
allowable under the governing and applicable cost principles; (2) that the same costs
that have been treated as indirect costs are not claimed as direct costs; (3) that
similar types of costs have been accorded consistent accounting treatment; and (4)
that the information provided by the contractor/grantee, which was used as the basis
for the acceptance of the rate(s) agreed to herein and expressly relied upon by the
Government in negotiating and accepting the said rates, is not subsequently found to
be materially incomplete or inaccurate.

B.  ACCOUNTING CHANGES: The predetermined rates contained in Section I of this agreement
are based on the accounting system in effect at the time this agreement was negotiated.
Changes to the method(s) of accounting for costs which affects the amount of
reimbursement resulting from the use of these rates requires the express and written
approval of the authorized representative of the cognizant negotiating agency for the
Government prior to implementation of any such changes.  Such changes include but are
not limited to changes in the charging of a particular type of cost from indirect to
direct.  Failure on the part of the grantee/contractor to obtain the required approval
may result in subsequent cost disallowances.

C.  PREDETERMINED RATES: The predetermined rates contained in this agreement are not
subject to adjustment in accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-21, subject
to the limitations contained in Part A of this section.

D.  USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES: The rates set forth in Section I hereof were
negotiated in accordance with and under the authority set forth in OMB Circular A-21.
Accordingly, such rates shall be applied, to the extent provided in such circular, to
grants and contracts to which OMB Circular A-21 is applicable, subject to any
limitations in part A of this section. Copies of this document may be provided by
either party to other Federal agencies which have or intend to issue or award grants
and/or contracts to Louisiana Tech University to use the stated rates or to otherwise
provide such agencies with documentary notice of this agreement and its terms and
conditions.


FOR THE UNIVERSITY:                                          	FOR THE GOVERNMENT:


By:   /S/                                                    	By:  /S/
      JOSEPH R. THOMAS, JR.                      	        MICHAEL KUC
      Vice President for Financial     	                    	Contracting Officer
      Services and Comptroller

Date: 9/8/00                                  			Date: 9/8/00


FOR INFORMATION CONCERNING THIS AGREEMENT CONTACT:

Office of Naval Research				
Linda Shipp				
Indirect Cost Division/ONR 242
800 N. Quincy Street
BCT # 1, Room 704	
Arlington, VA 22217
(703) 696-8559 or (703) 696-4430 FAX		
