CllgMI Michigan Technological University 470049123 6/15/00 1096

                NEGOTIATION AGREEMENT

INSTITUTION:	MICHIGAN TECHNOLOGICAL UNIVERSITY
		HOUGHTON, MI 49931-1295

The Facilities and Administrative (F&A) and Fringe Benefit rates contained herein are
for use on all grants and/or contracts issued or awarded to Michigan Technological
University by all Federal agencies of the United States of America in accordance with
the cost principles mandated by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular
A-21. These F&A rates shall be used for forward pricing and billing purposes for the
Michigan Technological University's Fiscal Years 2001, 2002 and 2003. The Fringe
Benefit Rates shall be used for forward pricing and billing purposes for FY 2001.
This rate agreement supersedes all previous agreements/determinations for Fiscal
Years 2001,2002 and 2003.

SECTION: RATES - TYPE: PREDETERMINED (PRED)

Type	From	To	  Rate	  Location	Base	Applicable to

Facilities Administrative Rates:

Pred	7-1-00	6-30-03	  51.0%	  On-Campus    	(a)	Research

Pred	7-1-00	6-30-03	  26.0%	  Off-Campus   	(a)	Research

Fringe Benefit Rates:

Pred	7-1-00	6-30-01	  38.0%		        (b)	Base Rate for
 						        All Employees

Pred	7-1-00	6-30-01   57.0%	                (c)	Grant Funded
							Employees
                               
                                 DISTRIBUTION BASE

(a) Modified Total Direct Costs (MTDC), as defined in OMB Circular A-21, consisting of
all salaries and wages, fringe benefits, materials and supplies, services, travel,
and subgrants and subcontracts up to the first $25,000 of each subgrant or subcontract
(regardless of the period covered by the subgrant or subcontract). Equipment, capital
expenditures, charges for patient care and tuition remission, rental costs, scholarships
and fellowships as well as the portion of each subgrant and subcontract in excess of
$25,000 shall be excluded from modified total direct costs.

(b) Non-Student Salary and Wages.

(c) Research Centers' and Institutes" Non-Student Salaries and Wages.

SECTION II - GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS

A. LIMITATIONS: Use of the rates set forth under Section I of this agreement is
expressly subject to any statutory or administrative limitations and is
applicable to a given grant, contract, or other agreement only to the extent
that funds are available and consistent with any and all limitations of cost
clauses or provisions, if any, contained therein. Acceptance of any or all of
the rates agreed to herein is predicated upon all the following conditions:
(1) that no costs other than those incurred by the grantee/contractor were
included in its indirect cost pool as finally accepted and that all such
costs are legal obligations of the grantee/contractor and allowable under the
governing and applicable cost principles; (2) that the same costs that have
been treated as indirect costs are not claimed as direct costs; (3) that
similar types of costs have been accorded consistent accounting treatment; and
(4) that the information provided by the contractor/grantee, which was used as
the basis for the acceptance of the rate(s) agreed to herein and expressly
relied upon by the Government in negotiating and accepting the said rates,
is not subsequently found to be materially incomplete or inaccurate.

B. ACCOUNTING CHANGES: The predetermined rates contained in Section I of this
agreement are based on the accounting system in effect at the time this
agreement was negotiated. Changes to the method(s) of accounting for costs
which affects the amount of reimbursement resulting from the use of these rates
requires the express and written approval of the authorized representative of
the cognizant negotiating agency for the Government prior to implementation of
any such changes. Such changes include but are not limited to changes in the
charging of a particular type of cost from indirect to direct. Failure on the
part of the grantee/contractor to obtain the required approval may result in
subsequent cost disallowances.

C. PREDETERMINED RATES: The predetermined rates contained in this agreement are
not subject to adjustment in accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-21,
subject to the limitations contained in Part A of this section.

D. USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES: The rates set forth in SECTION I hereof were
negotiated in accordance with and under the authority set forth in OMB Circular
A-21. Accordingly, such rates shall be applied, to the extent provided in such
circular, to grants and contracts to which OMB Circular A-21 is applicable,
subject to any limitations in part A of this section. Copies of this document
may be provided by either party to other Federal agencies which have or intend
to issue or award grants and/or contracts to Michigan Technological University
to use the stated rates or to otherwise provide such agencies with documentary
notice of this agreement and its terms and conditions.

E. DFARS WAIVER: Signature of this agreement by the authorized representatives
of Michigan Technological University and the Government, acknowledges and
affirms the University's request for waiver of the prohibition contained in
DFARS 231.303 (1) and the Government's exercise of its discretion under DFARS
231.303 (2) to waive the prohibition in DFARS 231.303(1). The waiver request
by Michigan Technological University is made to simplify the University's
overall management of DOD cost reimbursements under DOD contracts.


FOR MICHIGAN TECHNOLOGICAL			   FOR THE GOVERNMENT 
UNIVERSITY:								


/s/ 						   /s/

				
William J. McGarry				   Michael Kuc 
Vice President for Finance and Administration	   Contracting Officer
and Treasurer of the Board of Control

15 Jun 00                                          15 Jun 00
Date			 			   Date



FOR INFORMATION CONCERNING THIS AGREEMENT CONTACT:
OFFICE OF NAVAL RESEARCH
RAY EICHMAN
INDIRECT COST DIVISION/ONR 242
800 N. QUINCY STREET
BCT # 1, ROOM 704
ARLINGTON, VA 22217
(703) 696-2586 or (703) 696-4430 FAX
