CllgPA Carnegie Mellon University 250969449 12/22/01 0187

              NEGOTIATION AGREEMENT

INSTITUTION:  Carnegie Mellon University  
              Software Engineering Institute  
              Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890

The Other Direct Expense rate contained herein are for use on grants and contracts
with all Federal agencies in accordance with the cost principles mandated by the
Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-21. This rate shall be used for
forward pricing and billing purposes for the Software Engineering Institute's
Fiscal Year 2001. This rate agreement supersedes all previous rate agreements
or determinations for Fiscal Year 2001.

SECTION I: Rates - Type: Fixed With Carryforward ("Fixed")
                             
Type    Effective Period     Rate      Base  Location  Applicable To
        From       To

Fixed   7/1/00     6/30/01   110.00%   (a)   SEI       All Programs 
                                        
Distribution Base:  (a) Total personnel expenses (salaries, wages and benefits) 

SECTION II: GENERAL
                                                                                                                                           
A.  LIMITATIONS: Use of the rate contained in this Agreement is subject to any
statutory or administrative limitations and is applicable  to a given grant or
contract only to the extent that funds are available.   Acceptance of the rate
agreed to herein is predicated upon  the following conditions:  (1) that no
costs other than those incurred by the grantee/contractor were included in
this indirect cost pool as finally accepted and that such costs are legal
obligations of the grantee/contractor and allowable under governing cost
principles: (2) that the same costs that have been treated as indirect
costs are not claimed as direct costs; (3) that similar types of costs have
been accorded consistent accounting treatment; and (4) that the information
provided by the grantee/contractor which was used  as a basis for acceptance
of the rate agreed to herein is not subsequently found to be materially
incomplete or inaccurate.

B.  ACCOUNTING CHANGES:  The rate contained in this Agreement is based on the
accounting system in effect at the time the agreement was negotiated.  Changes
to the method of accounting for costs which affect the amount of reimbursement
resulting from the use of this rate require the prior approval of the
authorized representative of the cognizant negotiation agency.  Such changes
include, but are not limited to changes in the charging of a particular type
of cost from indirect to direct.  Failure to obtain such approval may result
in subsequent cost disallowances.

C.  FIXED RATES: The fixed rate in this agreement is based on an estimate of the
costs for the period covered by the rate.  When actual costs for this period are
determined, an adjustment may be made to a rate of a future year to recognize the
difference between the estimated costs used to establish the fixed rate and the
negotiated actual costs.

D.  USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES:  The rate contained herein was negotiated
in accordance with the authority set forth in OMB Circular A-21, and should be applied
to grants and contracts to which OMB Circular A-21 applies,  subject to any limitations
in paragraph A. above.  Copies of this document may be provided by the Institution to
other Federal Agencies having grants and contracts using these rates as a means of
providing them with early notification of the agreement contained herein.

E.  QUALIFICATIONS;    The purpose of this agreement is to establish a fixed Other
Direct Expense rate for the period 1 July 2000 through 30 June 2001.  The rate
established in Section I above are based on SEI's proposal dated 15 September 2000. 
The establishment of these rates by the Government, based on the accounting systems 
and allocation methodologies contained in this proposal, does not represent an
agreement that these systems and methodologies are accepted for FY 2001, or for any
subsequent fiscal year's rate negotiation. The recommendations of the Defense
Contract Audit Agency (DCAA) , Pennsylvania Branch in Audit Report No. 6701-
2001G23000001 were considered during the negotiation of these rates.       


For Software Engineering Institute           For the Government


/S/                                          /S/
Signature                                    Signature

Jeffrey W. Bolton                            Michael Kuc
VP for Business and Planning,                Contracting Officer
and Chief Financial Officer                  Name/Title                                                                
Name/Title                                   


12/22/00                                     12/22/00
Date                                         Date
 

For information concerning this agreement contact:

Office of Naval Research
Deborah Rafi
Indirect Cost Division/ONR 242
800 N. Quincy Street,  Tower  #1, Room 704
Arlington, VA 22217
(703) 696-5641
    













