CllgMI  Michigan Technological University  470049123 1/24/01 0192

                PROVISIONAL RATE AGREEMENT 

INSTITUTION:	MICHIGAN TECHNOLOGICAL UNIVERSITY
		HOUGHTON, MICHIGAN

The Employee Benefits rates contained herein are for use on grants, contracts and/or
other agreements issued or awarded to Michigan Technological University by all
Federal Agencies of the United States of America, in accordance with the provisions
and cost principles mandated by Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-21.
These rates shall be used for forward pricing and billing purposes beginning with
Michigan Technological University's Fiscal Year 2002. This rate agreement
 supersedes all previous rate agreements / determinations for Fiscal Year 2002.  

SECTION I: RATES - TYPE:  PROVISIONAL (PROV) 
 
TYPE   FROM    TO            RATE    BASE  LOCATION	APPLICABLE TO 

Fringe Benefits Rate:

PROV  7/1/01  Until Amended  39.9%  (a)	   All		Base Rate for
                                                        All Employees
Distribution Base

(a)	Non-Student Salary and Wages 

SECTION II - GENERAL
                                                                                                                                                            
A.  LIMITATIONS:  Use of the rates set forth under Section I is subject to any
statutory or administrative limitations and is applicable to a given grant or
contract only to the extent that funds are available.  Acceptance of the rates
agreed to herein is predicated upon all of the following conditions: (1) that
no costs other than those incurred by the grantee/contractor were included in
this indirect cost pool as finally accepted and that such costs are legal
obligations of the grantee/contractor and allowable under governing cost
principles, (2) that the same costs that have been treated as indirect costs
are not claimed as direct costs, (3) that similar types of costs have been
accorded consistent accounting treatment, and (4) that the information
provided by the grantee/contractor which was used as a basis for acceptance
of the rates agreed to herein, and expressly relied upon by the Government
in establishing and accepting the said rates is not subsequently found to
be materially incomplete or inaccurate.          

B. ACCOUNTING CHANGES: The provisional rates contained in Section I of this
agreement are based on the accounting system in effect at the time the
agreement was established.  Changes to the method(s) of accounting for
costs, which affect the amount of reimbursement resulting from the use of
these rates, require the prior approval of the authorized representative of
the cognizant negotiation agency.  Such changes include but are not limited
to changes in the charging of a particular type of cost from indirect to
direct.  Failure to obtain such approval may result in subsequent cost
disallowances. See Special Remarks, paragraph E.

C. USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES: The rates set forth in Section I were
established in accordance with and under the authority set forth in OMB
Circular A-21. Accordingly, such rates shall be applied to the extent
provided in such Circular to grants and contracts to which OMB Circular
A-21 applies, subject to any limitations in part A of this section.
Copies of this document may be provided by either party to other
federal agencies which have or intend to issue or award sponsored
agreements using these rates or to otherwise provide such agencies with
documentary notice of this agreement and its terms and conditions.

D.  PROVISIONAL RATES: The provisional rates contained in this agreement
are subject to unilateral amendment by the Government or bilateral
amendment by the contracting parties at any time.

E. SPECIAL REMARKS: The Government's agreement to this rate does not
imply acceptance of the proposed accounting change(s) for fiscal year
2002. The Government will make a final decision on the proposed
accounting changes upon completion of the Government's review.


Accepted:

FOR THE MICHIGAN TECHNOLOGICAL		        FOR THE U.S. GOVERNMENT:
UNIVERSITY:

/s/					        /s/				
William J. McGarry			        Deborah K. Rafi
Vice President for Finance and Administration	Contracting Officer
   And Treasurer of the Board of Control

17 January 2001					24 January 2001		
Date						Date

For information concerning this document contact:
Ray Eichman
Office of Naval Research
ONR 242/Rm 704
800 N. Quincy Street
Arlington, VA  22217
(703) 696-2586
E-mail: eichmar@onr.navy.mil
