CllgMA Wentworth Institute 044814606 6/1/00   0160

              NEGOTIATION AGREEMENT

INSTITUTION:  WENTWORTH INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
              BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS

The Facilities & Administrative cost and Employee Benefits rates contained herein are
for use on grants, contracts and/or other agreements issued or awarded to Wentworth
Institute of Technology by all Federal Agencies of the United States of America, in
accordance with the provisions and cost principles mandated by the Office of
Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-21.  These rates shall be used for forward
pricing and billing purposes for Wentworth Institute of Technology's Fiscal Year 2001.
This rate agreement supersedes all previous rate agreements or determinations for
Fiscal Year 2001. 

SECTION I:  RATES - TYPE: PREDETERMINED (PRED) 


Facilities & Administrative Rates (Indirect Cost):

Effective Period

Type   From    To        Rate    Base   Location     Applicable to


Pred   7/1/00  6/30/01   26.5%   (a)    On  Campus   Organized Research (1)

Pred   7/1/00  6/30/01   26.0%   (a)    Off Campus   Organized Research (1)

Pred   7/1/00  6/30/01   43.0%   (a)    Off Campus   Organized Research (2)

Employee Benefits Rate:

Type   From    To        Rate    Base                Applicable to

Pred   7/1/00  6/30/01   18.51%  (b)                 All Except Wentworth Lab

Pred   7/1/00  6/30/01   14.85%  (b)                 Wentworth Lab

                        DISTRIBUTION BASE:

(a) Modified Total Direct Cost (MTDC), as defined in OMB Circular A-21, consisting of
all salaries and wages, fringe benefits, materials and supplies, services, travel and
subgrants and subcontracts up to the first $25,000 of each subgrant or subcontract
(regardless of the period covered by the subgrant or subcontract).  Equipment,
capital expenditures, charges for patient care and tuition remission, rental costs,
scholarships, and fellowships as well as the portion of each subgrant and subcontract
in excess of $25,000 shall be excluded.

(b) Direct Labor Dollars (excluding temporary labor).

APPLICABLE TO

(1) Applies to DOD contracts awarded before November 30, 1993, all non-DOD instruments,
and all DOD grants.

(2) Applies only to DOD contracts awarded on or after November 30, 1993 in accordance
with and under the authority of DFARS 231.303(1). See Section II, Part E. 

SECTION II - GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS

A.  LIMITATIONS:  Use of the rates set forth under Section I is subject to any statutory
or administrative limitations and is applicable to a given grant, contract or other
agreement only to the extent that funds are available and consistent with any and all
limitations of cost clauses or provisions, if any, contained therein.  Acceptance of the
rates agreed to herein is predicated upon all the following conditions: (1) that no
costs other than those incurred by the grantee/contractor were included in the indirect
cost pool as finally accepted and that all such costs are legal obligations of the
grantee/contractor and allowable under governing cost principles; (2) that the same
costs that have been treated as indirect costs are not claimed as direct costs; (3)
that similar types of costs have been accorded consistent accounting treatment; and
(4) that the information provided by the contractor/grantee, which was used as the
basis for the acceptance of the rates agreed to herein and expressly relied upon by
the Government in negotiating and accepting the said rates, is not subsequently
found to be materially incomplete or inaccurate.

B.  ACCOUNTING CHANGES: The rates contained in Section I of this agreement are based on
the accounting system in effect at the time this agreement was established.  Changes to
the method(s) of accounting for costs which affects the amount of reimbursement
resulting from the use of these rates require the written approval of the authorized
representative of the cognizant negotiating agency for the Government prior to
implementation of any such changes.  Such changes include but are not limited to
changes in the charging of a particular type of cost from indirect to direct.  Failure
to obtain such approval may result in subsequent cost disallowances.

C.  PREDETERMINED RATES: The predetermined rates contained in this agreement are not
subject to adjustment in accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-21, subject to
the limitations contained in Part A of this section.

D.  USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES: The rates set forth in Section I hereof were
established in accordance with and under the authority set forth in OMB Circular A-21.
Accordingly, such rates shall be applied to the extent provided in such circular to
grants, contracts and other agreements to which OMB Circular A-21 is applicable,
subject to any limitations in part A of this section.  Copies of this document may be
provided by either party to other Federal agencies which have or intend to issue or
award agreements using these rates, or to otherwise provide such agencies with
documentary notice of this determination and its terms and conditions. 

E.  APPLICATION OF INDIRECT COST RATES TO DoD CONTRACTS/SUBCONTRACTS: 

1. Signature of this agreement by the authorized representatives of Wentworth Institute
of Technology and the Government, acknowledges and affirms the Institution=s request for
waiver of the prohibition contained in DFARS 231.303(1) and the Government=s exercise of
its discretion under DFARS 231.303(2) to waive the prohibition in DFARS 231.303(1) for
the onsite Organized Research Facility and Administration cost rate cited in Section I.

2. In accordance with DFARS 231.303, no limitation (unless waived by the institution)
may be placed on the reimbursement of otherwise allowable indirect costs incurred by an
institution of higher education under a DOD contract awarded on or after
November 30, 1993, unless the same limitation is applied uniformly to all other
organizations performing similar work. It has been determined by the Department of
Defense that such limitation is not being uniformly applied. Accordingly, the rates
cited  "(2)" of Section I, as explained under the title " APPLICABLE TO," do not
reflect the application of the 26% limitation on administrative indirect costs
imposed by OMB Circular A-21, whereas "(1)" does.

Accepted:

FOR WENTWORTH INSTITUTE				FOR THE GOVERNMENT:
  OF TECHNOLOGY:


/s/            				        /s/
SANDRA PASCAL					DEBORAH K. RAFI
Associate Vice President of 			Contracting Officer
   Business & Finance


23 May 2000					1 June 2000
Date     					Date

For information concerning this document contact:
DEBORAH K. RAFI					PHONE: (703) 696-5641
OFFICE OF NAVAL RESEARCH			EMAIL: rafid@onr.navy.mil
BCT #1,  Rm. 704
800 N. QUINCY STREET, ARLINGTON, VA 22217
