CllgIL University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign 37600511 6/24/99 0113

               NEGOTIATION AGREEMENT
               FY 2000 - 2003  PROVISIONAL RATES 

INSTITUTION:   UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN
               CHAMPAIGN, ILLINOIS 61820-6242

The Facilities and Administrative (F&A) and Tuition Remission Rates contained herein are
for use on grants, contracts and/or other agreements issued or awarded to the University
of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign(UIUC) by all Federal Agencies of the United States of
America, in accordance with the cost principles mandated by the Office of Management and
Budget (OMB) Circular A-21.  These rates shall be used for forward pricing and billing
purposes at UIUC for Fiscal Years (FY) 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003. This rate agreement
supersedes any previous provisional rate agreement for FYs 2000 - 2003. 
                                                                                                                                                           
SECTION I:  RATES - TYPE: PROVISIONAL (PROV)

        Effective Period      On-Campus  Off-Campus                
Type    From       To         Rates      Rates        Base    Applicable Function              

F&A (Indirect Cost) Rates:

Prov    7/1/99     6/30/03    46.7%      24.0%        (a)     Sponsored Instruction

Prov    7/1/99     6/30/03    53.0%      24.0%        (a)     Organized Research

Prov    7/1/99     6/30/03    33.7%      10.7%        (a)     Materials Research Lab(MRL)

Prov    7/1/99     6/30/03    24.9%      18.7%        (a)     Other Sponsored Activities 

Prov    7/1/99     6/30/03     6.1%       6.1%        (a)     Campus Service Facilities 

Tuition Remission Rates:
                                         Non
                              In-State   Resident
Prov    7/1/99     6/30/03    34.5%      34.5%        (b)     Sponsored Instruction 

Prov    7/1/99     6/30/03    34.5%      34.5%        (b)     Research, including MRL
 
Prov    7/1/99     6/30/03    34.5%      34.5%        (b)     Other Sponsored Activities 


                             DISTRIBUTION BASE:

     (a)  Modified Total Direct Cost (MTDC), as defined in OMB Circular A-21, consisting
of all salaries and wages, fringe benefits, materials and supplies, services, travel,
and subgrants and subcontracts up to the first $25,000 each (regardless of the period
covered by the subgrant or subcontract); and excluding equipment (defined as having a
useful life of more than one year and an acquisition cost of $5,000 or more per unit),
capital expenditures, charges for patient care and tuition remission, rental costs,
scholarships and fellowships as well as the portion of each subgrant and subcontract
in excess of $25,000. 

     (b)  Salaries and wages of graduate assistants with tuition waivers (for purpose of
assessing tuition waivers). 
                                                                                                                                                            
SECTION II - GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS

A.     LIMITATIONS:  Use of the rates set forth under Section I is subject to any
statutory or administrative limitations, and is applicable to a given grant, contract
or other agreement only to the extent that funds are available and consistent with
any and all limitations of cost clauses or provisions, if any, contained therein.
Acceptance of the rates agreed to herein is predicated upon all the following
conditions: (1) that no costs other than those incurred by the grantee/contractor
or on behalf of the grantee/contractor by the State of Illinois were included in
the indirect cost pool as finally accepted and that all such costs are legal
obligations of the grantee/contractor and allowable under governing  cost
principles; (2) that the same costs that have been treated as indirect costs are
not claimed as direct costs; (3) that similar types of costs have been accorded
consistent accounting treatment; and (4) that the information provided by the
contractor/grantee, which was used as the basis for the acceptance of the rates
agreed to herein and expressly relied upon by the Government in negotiating and
accepting the said rates is not subsequently found to be materially incomplete or
inaccurate.

B.   ACCOUNTING CHANGES:  The rates contained in Section I of this agreement are
based on the accounting system in effect at the time this agreement was
negotiated. Changes to the method(s) of accounting for costs which affects the
amount of reimbursement resulting from the use of these rates require the
written approval of the authorized representative of the cognizant negotiating
agency for the Government prior to implementation of any such changes.  Such
changes include but are not limited to changes in the charging of a particular
type of cost  from indirect to direct.  Failure to obtain such approval may
result in subsequent cost disallowances.

C.   SPECIAL REMARKS:

     1.   Major Cost Elements Treated as Indirect Costs:  For the purpose
of the rates set forth herein, the following major cost elements are and
have been treated as indirect:

          a.   Use charges for equipment, building and improvements, and
                interest on buildings;

          b.   Operation and maintenance of physical plant;

          c.   Departmental and college administration;

          d.   Sponsored project administration;

          e.   General Administration and general expense;

          f.    Library expenses;

          g.   Applicable student services;

          h.   Environmental health and safety;

          i.   Departmental-faculty support administration.

     2.   Major Cost Elements treated as Direct Costs:  For the purpose
of the rates set forth herein, the following major cost elements, if
applicable, are and have been treated as direct:

          a.   Direct salaries and wages;

          b.   Consultant services;

          c.   Special equipment;

          d.   Travel;

          e.   Employee benefits;

          f.   Materials and Supplies (which includes equipment having
               a useful life of one year or less and/or an acquisition
               cost of less than $5,000);

          g.   Services;

          h.   Publication; and/or

          i.   Communications.

     3.   MTDC:  Modified total direct costs are the total direct costs excluding:

          a.   Subgrant and subcontract costs in excess of the first
               $25,000 per award; 
          
          b.   The costs of items of purchased equipment with an
               estimated life of more than one year and an acquisition cost
               of $5,000.00 or more per unit, including lease-purchase
               agreements.  This definition includes the cost of component parts,
               materials and/or supplies used to fabricate an item or piece of
               equipment when (1) the aggregate cost of the component parts,
               materials and/or supplies is $5,000.00 or more in value and (2)
               the cost of fabrication is documented and accounted for by the
               department.  This is in accordance with the waiver granted
               by OMB, dated June 29, 1995, which authorizes increasing the
               equipment cost threshold for capitalization from $500 to $5,000;

          c.   Capital expenditures;

          d.   Charges for patient care and tuition remission;

          e.   Rental costs; and/or

          f.   Scholarships and fellowships.

     4.   The rates contained in Section I of this agreement are in compliance
with DFARS 231.303 (1), since the institution has elected to use the alternate
method for administrative costs as set forth in Section G.9 of OMB Circular A-21.

D.   APPLICATION OF RATES:

     1.   Application of the appropriate On-Campus or Off-Campus indirect
rate(s) is to be determined at the beginning of each sponsored agreement and
is to be equitably adjusted if the circumstances which determined the application
change materially during the period of performance. For this agreement, the term
"sponsored agreement" includes grants, contracts or other agreements permitted
by regulation or law.

     2.   The On-Campus rate is to be assessed except when a portion of the
sponsored agreement is performed at an off-campus site. In such cases, certain
costs normally considered as indirect, such as rent or utility costs may be
charged as direct costs to the particular sponsored agreement.  The criteria
for utilization of the off-campus rate consists of all of the following:

          a.   Performance at the off-campus site must be on a continuous basis;
intermittent performance is not sufficient;

          b.   The University personnel working or engaged on the project must
be physically located at an off-campus site; and

          c.   The off-campus performance must be of sufficient duration;
normally a full semester, summer term or the period of performance of the
sponsored agreement. 

     3.   Off-campus costs may include costs incurred at the off-campus site
for salaries, related benefits, supplies, utility costs, rent, local travel
and other similar costs which are treated as direct.  Travel to and from an
off-campus site is considered an off-campus cost.

     4.   The tuition remission rates are applicable to in-state and
non-resident graduate assistants.

E.  USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES:  The rates set forth in Section I hereof
were negotiated in accordance with and under the authority set forth in OMB
Circular A-21.  Accordingly, such rates shall be applied to the extent
provided in such circular to grants, contracts and other agreements to
which OMB Circular A-21 is applicable, subject to any limitations in part
A of this section. Copies of this document may be provided by either party
to other Federal agencies which have or intend to issue or award grants
and contracts using these rates or to otherwise provide such agencies
with documentary notice of this agreement and its terms and conditions.

F.  PROVISIONAL RATES:  The provisional rates contained in this agreement
are subject to unilateral amendment by the Government or bilateral
amendment by the contracting parties at any time. 


FOR THE UNIVERSITY:                              FOR THE GOVERNMENT:


/S/                                              /S/
Craig S. Bazzani                                 Michael Kuc
Comptroller & Authorized Representative          Contracting Officer
of the Board of Trustees

June 24, 1999                                    June 24, 1999
Date                                             Date



For information concerning this agreement contact: 
OFFICE OF NAVAL RESEARCH,
MICHAEL KUC, INDIRECT COSTS/ONR 242
800 N. QUINCY STREET,
ARLINGTON, VA  22217, PHONE:  (703) 696-2571



