CllgNJ Stevens Institute of Technology  221487354 6/16/00  0164                                

               NEGOTIATION AGREEMENT

INSTITUTION:   STEVENS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY  
               HOBOKEN, NJ 07030           
               
The Facilities and Administrative cost rates contained herein are for use on all grants
and/or contracts with all Federal agencies in accordance with the cost principles and
provisions mandated by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-21.  These
rates shall be used for forward pricing and billing purposes for Stevens Institute of
Technology's Fiscal Year 2000. This rate agreement supersedes all previous rate
agreements/determinations for Fiscal Year 2000.
                                                                 
SECTION I: RATES - TYPE: Fixed with Carry-forward Provisions (FIXED)
                                                                 
Facilities & Administrative Cost (Indirect) Rates:

Type    From    To          On Campus   Base   Applicable To       

FIXED   7/1/99  6/30/00     62.0%       (a)    Organized Research (1)

FIXED   7/1/99  6/30/00     53.3%       (a)    Organized Research (2)

                       DISTRIBUTION BASE

The following bases are applicable to the above cited rates:

  (a)  Modified Total Direct Cost (MTDC), as defined in OMB Circular A-21, consists of
  salaries and wages, fringe benefits, materials and supplies, services, travel and
  subgrants and subcontracts up to the first $25,000 of each subgrant or subcontract
  (regardless of the period covered by the subgrant or subcontract).  Equipment (see
  definition in Section II, paragraphG.), capital expenditures, charges for patient
  care and tuition remission, rental costs, scholarships, and fellows as well as the
  portion of each subgrant and subcontract in excess of $25,000 is excluded.

                       APPLICABLE TO

     (1)  Applies to only DOD contracts awarded on or after November 30, 1993 in
     accordance with and under the authority of DFARS 231.303(1).  See Section II,
     Part F thereof.

     (2)  Applies to DOD contracts awarded before November 30, 1993, all Non-DOD
     Instruments, and all DOD Grants.
                                                                 
SECTION II - GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS

A.  LIMITATIONS:  Use of the rates contained in this agreement are subject to
any statutory or administrative limitations and is applicable to a given grant,
contract, or other agreement only to the extent that funds are available.
Acceptance of any or all of the rates established herein is predicated upon all
the following conditions: (1) that no costs other than those incurred by the
grantee/contractor were included in its indirect cost pool as finally accepted
and that all such costs are legal obligations of the grantee/contractor and
allowable under the governing and applicable cost principles; (2) that the
same costs that have been treated as indirect costs are not claimed as direct
costs; (3) that similar types of costs have been accorded consistent accounting
treatment; and (4) that the information provided by the contractor/grantee,
which was used as the basis for accepting the rates herein and expressly relied
upon by the Government in accepting the said rates, is not subsequently found
to be materially incomplete or inaccurate.

B.  ACCOUNTING CHANGES: The rates contained in Section I of this agreement are
based on the accounting system in effect at the time this agreement was
established. Changes to the method(s) of accounting for costs which affects
the amount of reimbursement resulting from the use of these rates requires
the express and written approval of the authorized representative of the
cognizant negotiating agency for the Government prior to implementation of
any such changes. Such changes include but are not limited to changes in
the charging of a particular type of cost from indirect to direct.
Failure on the part of the grantee/contractor to obtain the required approval
may result in subsequent cost disallowances.

C.  FIXED RATES: The fixed rates in this agreement are based on estimates
of the costs for FY 2000 When actual costs for this period are determined,
an adjustment will be made to the rates of a future year to recognize the
difference between the FY 2000 estimated costs used to establish the fixed
rates and the negotiated actual FY 2000 costs.

D.  CARRY-FORWARD AMOUNTS: The rates in this agreement are inclusive of
estimated FY 1998 carry-forward amounts as follows:



                        Rate Function/Applicable To       Estimated FY98

Under/(Over) Recovery
                        Organized Research On Campus (1)  ($ 96,983)
                        Organized Research On Campus (2)  $177,875 
                                                       
E.  USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES: The rates set forth in SECTION I hereof were
established in accordance with and under the authority set forth in OMB
Circular A-21. Accordingly, such rates shall be applied, to the extent provided
in such circular, to grants and contracts to which OMB Circular A-21 is
applicable, subject to any limitations in part A of this section. Copies of this
document may be provided by either party to other Federal agencies which have or
intend to issue or award grants and/or contracts to Stevens Institute of
Technology to use the stated rates or to otherwise provide such agencies with
documentary notice of this determination and its terms and conditions.

F.  APPLICATION OF INDIRECT COST RATES TO DOD CONTRACTS AND
    SUBCONTRACTS: In accordance with DFARS 231.303, no limitation (unless
waived by the institution) may be placed on the reimbursement of otherwise
allowable indirect costs incurred by an institution of higher education under
a DOD contract awarded on or after November 30, 1993, unless the same
limitation is applied uniformly to all other organizations performing similar
work.  It has been determined by the Department of Defense that such limitation
is not being uniformly applied.  Accordingly, the rates cited "(1)" of
Section I, as explained under the title "APPLICABLE TO", do not reflect the
application of the 26% limitation on administrative indirect costs imposed
by OMB Circular A-21 where as "(2)" does.

G.  SPECIAL REMARKS: The definition of equipment acquired on or before
June 30, 1996 is equipment having a useful life of more than one year and
an acquisition cost which equals or exceeds $500. The definition of
equipment acquired after June 30, 1996 is equipment having a useful life
of more than one year and an acquisition cost which equals or exceeds $5,000.

ACCEPTANCE:

FOR STEVENS INSTITUTE                          FOR THE GOVERNMENT:
OF TECHNOLOGY:

/s/                                           /s/
Susan Vogt                                    DEBORAH K. RAFI
Vice President for Administration & Finance   Contracting Officer
               

16 June 2000                                  19 June 2000
Date                                          Date

                                             
FOR INFORMATION CONCERNING THIS AGREEMENT CONTACT:

     OFFICE OF NAVAL RESEARCH           (703) 696-5641
     DEBORAH K. RAFI                    E-Mail rafid@onr.navy.mil
     ONR 242 / ROOM 704  
     800 N. QUINCY STREET
     ARLINGTON, VA 22217 