CllgIL University of Illinois At Springfield  362177139  6/24/99  0114

              NEGOTIATION AGREEMENT

Institution: University of Illinois At Springfield
             Springfield, Illinois  62794-9243

The Facilities & Administrative (F&A) rate contained herein is for use on grants and
contracts with all Federal agencies in accordance with the cost principles mandated
by Office of Management And Budget (OMB) Circular A-21.  This provisional rate shall
be used for forward pricing and billing purposes for the University of Illinois At
Springfield's fiscal year (FY) 1999. This rate agreement supersedes all previous
rate agreements/determinations for the University of
Illinois At Springfield's  FY 1999.

SECTION I: RATES - TYPE:   PROVISIONAL   (PROV)

F&A  RATE
                                          APPLICABLE 
TYPE  FROM     TO        RATE      BASE   TO             LOCATION

Prov  7/01/98  6/30/99   60.00%    (a)    All Programs   On-Campus 


                  DISTRIBUTION BASE

     (a) Direct Salaries and wages.
                                                                                                                                    
SECTION II: GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS

A.  LIMITATION: Use of the rate contained in this agreement is subject to any
statutory or administrative limitations and is applicable to a given grant or
contract only to the extent that funds are available.  Acceptance of the rate
agreed to herein is predicated upon the following conditions: (1) that no costs
other than those incurred by the contractor/grantee were included in this
indirect cost pool as finally accepted and that such costs are legal
obligations of the contractor/grantee and allowable under governing cost
principles; (2) that the same costs that have been treated as indirect costs
are not claimed as direct costs; (3) that similar types of costs have been
accorded consistent accounting treatment; and (4) the information provided by
the institution which was used as a basis for acceptance of the rate agreed to
herein and expressly relied upon by the Government in negotiating and accepting
the said rate is not subsequently found to be materially incomplete or
inaccurate.

B. ACCOUNTING CHANGES: The provisional rate contained in this agreement is based
on the accounting system in effect at the time this agreement was negotiated.
Changes to the method of accounting for costs which affect the amount of
reimbursement resulting from the use of this rate requires the approval of the
authorized representative of the cognizant agency.  Such changes include, but are
not limited to, changes in the charging of a particular type of cost from indirect
to direct.  Failure to obtain approval may result in cost disallowances.

C.  USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES: The rate in this agreement was negotiated in
accordance with the authority in Office of Management And Budget Circular A-21,
and should be applied to grants, contracts and other agreements covered by Office
of Management And Budget Circular A-21, subject to any limitations in Part A above.
The institution may provide copies of the agreement to other Federal agencies to
give them early notification of the agreement contained herein.

D.  QUALIFICATION:   The purpose of this agreement is to establish a Facilities &
Administrative cost rate for the period 1 July 1998 to 30 June 1999.  This rate is
based on the University of Illinois At Springfield's letter dated 23 June 1999, and
the establishment of this rate by the Government does not represent an agreement that
the University's accounting systems and allocation methodologies are accepted for
fiscal year 1999, or for any subsequent fiscal year's rate negotiation.  
  
E.  The individuals executing this agreement are authorized to execute for and on
behalf of the parties for whom they sign and do so as their free and voluntary act.
This agreement may be canceled by either party, in which case the Government may
establish unilateral provisional rates.


For The University:                                    For The Government

                                                                                                                                       
/S/                                                    /S/
Signature                                              Signature
                   

Carl E. Long                                           Michael Kuc
Name                                                   Name
Assistant Vice President for Business & Finance        Contracting Officer
Title                                                  Title


6/24/99                                                6/24/99
Date                                                   Date

                 

For information concerning this document, contact:

MICHAEL KUC
OFFICE OF NAVAL RESEARCH
INDIRECT COSTS/ONR 242
800 N. QUINCY STREET, ROOM 704
ARLINGTON, VA 22217-5660
PHONE: (703) 696-2571


