NPrfMI National Center For Manufacturing Sciences 381761116 2/1/00  0141

               PROVISIONAL RATE AGREEMENT

INSTITUTION:   NATIONAL CENTER FOR MANUFACTURING SCIENCES (NCMS)
               ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN  

The Indirect Cost Rates and Fringe Benefits Rate contained herein are for use on all
grants, contracts and/or cooperative agreements issued in accordance with the cost
principles mandated by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-122.
These rates shall be used for forward pricing and billing purposes for the National
Center for Manufacturing Sciences Fiscal Year 2000 or until amended. This rate
agreement supersedes all previous rate agreements/determinations for FY 2000.
                                                                                                                                                         
SECTION I:  RATES:   PROVISIONAL (Prov)
                                                                                                                                                                 
Type      Pool                        From    To              Rate     Base   Location

Prov.     Organized Research          1/1/00  Until Amended   71.26%   (a)    All

Prov.     Strategic Development       1/1/00  Until Amended   55.72%   (a)    All
     
Prov.     Subsidiary Admin & Project  1/1/00  Until Amended   69.89%   (a)    All

Prov.     Fringe Benefits             1/1/00  Until Amended   42.59%   (b)    All

                         DISTRIBUTION BASES:

(a)  Modified Total Direct Cost (MTDC), includes all salaries and wages, fringe benefits,
materials and supplies, services, travel, and subgrants and  subcontracts up to the
first $25,000 of each subgrant or subcontract (regardless of the period covered by the
subgrant or subcontract).  Federally purchased equipment and co-funding are excluded.

(b)       Total Salaries and Wages

SECTION II: LIMITATIONS

A.  LIMITATION:  Use of the rates set forth under Section I of this agreement is
expressly subject to any statutory or administrative limitations and is applicable to
a given grant, contract, or other agree ment only to the extent that funds are available
and consistent with any and all limitations of cost clauses or provisions, if any,
contained therein.  Acceptance of any or all of the rates agreed to herein is predicated
upon all the following conditions: (1) that no costs other than those incurred by the
grantee/contractor were included in its indirect cost pool as finally accepted and that
all such costs are legal obligations of the grantee/contractor and allowable under the
governing and applicable cost principles; (2) that the same costs that have been
treated as indirect costs are not claimed as direct costs; (3) that similar types
of costs have been accorded consistent accounting treatment; and (4) that the
information provided by the contractor/grantee, which was used as the basis for the
acceptance of the rates agreed to herein and expressly relied upon by the Government in
accepting the said rates, is not subsequently found to be materially incomplete or
inaccurate.

B. ACCOUNTING CHANGES: The provisional rates contained in Section I of this agreement
are based on the accounting system in effect at the time this agreement was negotiated.
Changes to the method(s) of accounting for costs which affects the amount of
reimbursement resulting from the use of these rates requires the express and written
approval of the authorized representative of the cognizant negotiating agency for the
Government prior to implementation of any such changes.  Such changes include but are
not limited to changes in the charging of a particular type of cost from indirect to
direct.  Failure on the part of the grantee/contractor to obtain the required approval
may result in subsequent cost disallowances.

C. USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES: The rates set forth in Section I hereof were
negotiated in accordance with and under the authority set forth in OMB Circular A-122.
Accordingly, such rates shall be applied, to the extent provided in such circular, to
grants, contracts and/or cooperative agreements to which OMB Circular A-122 is
applicable, subject to any limitations in part A of this section. Copies of this
document may be provided by either party to other Federal agencies which have or
intend to issue or award grants, contracts, and/or cooperative agreements to the
National Center for Manufacturing Sciences to use the stated rates or to otherwise
provide such agencies with documentary notice of this agreement and its terms and
conditions.

D.  SPECIAL REMARKS: The Government's agreement with these rates is not an acceptance
of NCMS's accounting systems, cost classifications, or allocation  methodologies.



ACCEPTED:

FOR NCMS:                             FOR THE GOVERNMENT:


/s/                                  /s/                                          
PATRICK  L. ZIARNIK                  DEBORAH K. RAFI                                   
Vice President & General Counsel     Contracting Officer                        

31 January 2000                      1 February 2000                    
(Date)                               (Date)


FOR INFORMATION CONCERNING THIS AGREEMENT CONTACT:
                                  
OFFICE OF NAVAL RESEARCH
DEBORAH K. RAFI
INDIRECT COST DIVISION/ONR 242
BALLSTON TOWER #1 RM 717
800 N. QUINCY STREET
ARLINGTON, VA 22217-5660
(703) 696-5641
Email: rafid@onr.navy.mil
