NPrfDC  National Academy of Sciences   530196932 2/5/99 0102 
                    
             NEGOTIATION AGREEMENT

Institution: National Academy Of Sciences
             2101 Constitution Avenue
             Washington, D.C. 20418

The Indirect Cost and Fringe Benefits rates contained herein
are for use on grants and contracts with all Federal Agencies
of the United States of America, in accordance with the
provisions and cost principles mandated by Office of Management
and Budget (OMB) Circular A-122.  These rates shall be used for
forward pricing and billing purposes for the National
Academy Of Sciences for period indicated in Section I.  This
rate agreement supersedes all previous rate agreements for
Fiscal Year 1999.  

SECTION I: RATES - TYPE: PROVISIONAL (PROV)

                 Indirect Cost & Fringe Benefits Rates
                                                         APPLICABLE 
TYPE  ACCOUNT   FROM    TO              RATE     BASE    TO              LOCATION

Prov  Overhead  1/1/99  Until Amended   61.78%   (a)     All programs    Onsite
                                                         except offsite  programs
   
Prov  Overhead  1/1/99  Until Amended   43.25%   (b)     Programs        Offsite
                                                         performed 
                                                         offsite

Prov  Sub       1/1/99  Until Amended    2.18%   (c)     All programs    All
      agreement

Prov  G&A       1/1/99  Until Amended   20.53%   (d)     Value           All
                                                         added base

Prov  Leave     1/1/99  Until Amended   15.83%   (e)     Same as         All
                                                         base

Prov  Fringe    1/1/99  Until Amended   27.11%   (f)     Same as         All
      Benefits                                           base

Study Center:

Prov  Usage     1/1/99  Until Amended   $24.00   (g)     All Programs    Woods Hole

Prov  Food      1/1/99  Until Amended   $22.00   (g)     All Programs    Woods Hole

                       Cost of Money Rates (COM)
                                                                      
Prov  Overhead  1/1/99  Until Amended   1.3560%  (a)     All programs    Onsite
      COM                                                except offsite
                                                         programs                 

Prov  Overhead  1/1/99  Until Amended   0.1648%  (b)     Programs        Offsite
      COM                                                performed
                                                         offsite

Prov  Sub       1/1/99  Until Amended   0.0099%  (c)     All programs    All
      agreement
      COM

Prov  G&A COM   1/1/99  Until Amended   0.1314%  (d)     Value           All
                                                         added base     

                           DISTRIBUTION BASE

     (a)  Direct labor dollars composed of total direct salaries and
          wages, accrued leave, fringe benefits, consulting fees
          onsite, temporary personnel onsite, borrowed personnel
          onsite, and other personal services onsite.

     (b)  Direct labor dollars composed of total direct salaries and
          wages, accrued leave, fringe benefits, consulting fees
          onsite, temporary personnel onsite, borrowed personnel
          onsite, and other personal services onsite performed at
          locations other than 200 Wisconsin Avenue, 2101
          Constitution Avenue, 1055 Thomas Jefferson Street,
          2133 Wisconsin Avenue, and 1000 Thomas Jefferson Street.

     (c)  Subagreements, associateship/fellowship expenses, dues
          to international organizations, and direct charged
          equipment. 

     (d)  Direct labor dollars, other direct costs (except for
          subagreements, associateship/fellowship expenses, dues
          to international organizations, and direct charged
          equipment), and applied overhead.

     (e)  Gross salaries and wages less: spending account, overtime
          premium, annual leave, salary continuation, holiday leave,
          other leave, hourly employees, full time temporaries, part-time
          regular (<50%), part-time temporary, hourly and severance pay.

     (f)  Leave pool base (as described above), plus part-time regular
          (<50%), overtime premium and leave assessed.

     (g)  Per day, per person.  Daily food allowance covers breakfast,
          lunch, and snacks.

                                                                                                                        
SECTION II - GENERAL                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                 
A.   LIMITATIONS:  Use of the rates set forth under Section I is subject
to any statutory or administrative limitations and is applicable to a
given grant or contract only to the extent that funds are available.
Acceptance of the rates agreed to herein is predicated upon  the
following conditions: (1) that no costs other than those incurred by
the grantee/contractor were included in this indirect cost pool as
finally accepted and that such costs are legal obligations of the
grantee/contractor and allowable under governing cost principles;
(2) that the same costs that have been treated as indirect costs are
not claimed as direct costs; (3) that similar types of costs
have been accorded consistent accounting treatment; and (4) that the
information provided by the grantee/contractor which was used as a
basis for acceptance of the rates agreed to herein, and expressly
relied upon by the Government in accepting the said rates is not
subsequently found to be materially incomplete or inaccurate.          

B.   ACCOUNTING CHANGES:  The rates contained in Section I of this
agreement are based on the accounting system in effect at the time
the agreement was issued.  Changes to the method(s) of accounting
for costs which affect the amount of reimbursement resulting from
the use of these rates require the prior approval of the authorized
representative of the cognizant negotiation agency.  Such changes
include but are not limited to changes in the charging of a
particular type of cost from indirect to direct.  Failure to obtain
such approval may result in subsequent cost disallowances.

C.   USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES:  The rates set forth in Section I
were established in accordance with and under the authority set forth
in OMB Circular A-122. Accordingly, such rates shall be applied to the
extent provided in such Circular to grants and contracts to which OMB
Circular A-122 applies, subject to any limitations in part A of this
section.  Copies of this document may be provided by either party to
other federal agencies which have or intend to issue or award
sponsored agreements using these rates or to otherwise provide such
agencies with documentary notice of this agreement and its terms and 
conditions.

D.   PROVISIONAL RATES:   The provisional rates contained in this
agreement are subject to unilateral amendment by the Government or
bilateral amendment by the contracting parties at any time.

ACCEPTED FOR:

NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES         FOR THE U.S. GOVERNMENT



/s/                                  /s/                                                       
ARCHIE L. TURNER                     DEBORAH K. RAFI
Chief Financial Officer              Contracting Officer                            


4 February 1999                      5 February 1999                     
Date                                 Date

            For information concerning this document contact:
                            Deborah K. Rafi
                        Office of Naval Research
                         Indirect Costs/ONR 242
                          800 N. Quincy Street
                          Arlington, VA  22217
                             (703) 696-5641
                        E-mail: rafid@onr.navy.mil