NPrfMN  National Marrow Donor Program 840865803 4/14/00 0151

                  NEGOTIATION AGREEMENT

INSTITUTION:  National Marrow Donor Program
              Minneapolis, Minnesota 55413

The Indirect Cost and Fringe Benefit rates contained herein are for use on grants,
contracts and/or other agreements issued or awarded to the National Marrow Donor
Program (NMDP) by all Federal Agencies of the United States of America, in
accordance with the cost principles and provisions mandated by the Office of
Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-122.  These rates shall be used for
forward pricing and billing purposes for the NMDP's Fiscal Year 2000.
This rate agreement supersedes all previous rate agreements for Fiscal Year 2000.

SECTION I:  RATES - TYPE: FIXED AND CARRY-FORWARD PROVISIONS  (FIXED)

                           Effective Period                
Type     Category          From     To          Rate      Base  

Fixed    Indirect Cost    10/1/99   9/30/00     16.59%    (a)        

Fixed    Fringe Benefit   10/1/99   9/30/00     34.8%     (b) 

DISTRIBUTION BASES:

(a)   Total Direct Cost , consisting of  labor, fringe benefits, subcontracts and other
direct costs.

(b)   Total Labor Dollars , both direct and indirect.

SECTION II - GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS

A.   LIMITATIONS:  Use of the rates set forth under Section I is subject to any
statutory or administrative limitations and is applicable to a given grant,
contract or other agreement only to the extent that funds are available and
consistent with any and all limitations of cost clauses or provisions, if any,
contained therein.  Acceptance of the rates agreed to herein is predicated upon
all the following conditions: (1) that no costs other than those incurred by the
grantee/contractor were included in the indirect cost pool as finally accepted
and that all such costs are legal obligations of the grantee/contractor and
allowable under governing  cost principles; (2) that the same costs that have
been treated as indirect costs are not claimed as direct costs; (3) that similar
types of costs have been accorded consistent accounting treatment; and (4) that
the information provided by the contractor/grantee, which was used as the basis
for the acceptance of the rates agreed to herein and expressly relied upon by
the Government in establishing and accepting the said rates, is not subsequently
found to be materially incomplete or inaccurate.

B.   ACCOUNTING CHANGES: The rates contained in Section I of this agreement are
based on the accounting system in effect at the time this agreement was
established.  Changes to the method(s) of accounting for costs which affects
the amount of reimbursement resulting from the use of these rates require the
written approval of the authorized representative of the cognizant negotiating
agency for the Government prior to implementation of any such changes.  Such
changes include but are not limited to changes in the charging of a particular
type of cost from indirect to direct.  Failure to obtain such approval may
result in subsequent cost disallowances.

C.   USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES:  The rates set forth in Section I hereof
were established in accordance with and under the authority set forth in OMB
Circular A-122.  Accordingly, such rates shall be applied to the extent
provided in such circular to grants, contracts and other agreements to which
OMB Circular A-122 is applicable, subject to any limitations in part A of
this section.  Copies of this document may be provided by either party to
other Federal agencies which have or intend to issue or award agreements 
using these rates, or to otherwise provide such agencies with documentary
notice of this determination and its terms and conditions. 

D.   FIXED RATES: The fixed rates in this agreement are based on estimates
of costs for Fiscal Year 2000. When actual costs for this period are
determined, an adjustment will be made to the rates of a future year to
recognize the difference between the Fiscal Year 2000 estimated costs used
to establish the fixed rates and the Fiscal Year 2000 negotiated actual
costs.

E.  LIQUIDATION OF PRIOR YEAR CARRY FORWARD AMOUNTS: The fixed rates set
forth herein include an estimated carry forward amounts from Fiscal Year
1999:

           Indirect Cost Rate:         $ 775,798   Under-recovery
           Fringe Benefit Rate :       $( 40,144)  Over-recovery

When the FY 1999 actual costs and carryforward amounts are finalized,
any difference between the estimated carryforward amounts used to
establish FY 2000 rates and finalized carryforward amounts will be
considered in a subsequent rate negotiation.

The undersigned hereby declare that the terms of this document have
been completely read and are fully understood and voluntarily
accepted. The individuals executing this agreement are authorized
to execute for and on behalf of the parties for whom they sign and
do so as their free and voluntary act.


FOR THE NATIONAL MARROW                 FOR THE GOVERNMENT:
    DONOR PROGRAM:

/S/                                     /S/
GORDON C.  BRYAN                        MICHAEL KUC
Chief  Financial Officer                Contracting Officer

                                  
4/13/00                                 4/14/00
Date                                    Date


For information concerning this document contact:
MICHAEL KUC
OFFICE OF NAVAL RESEARCH
INDIRECT COSTS/ONR 242
800 N. QUINCY STREET, ROOM 704
ARLINGTON, VA 22217-5660
PHONE: (703) 696-2571
