CllgNJ  Stevens Institute of Technology  221487354 6/19/00 0165                                                        

               PROVISIONAL RATE AGREEMENT

INSTITUTION:   STEVENS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY  
               HOBOKEN, NJ 07030           
               
The rates contained herein are for use on all grants and/or contracts with all Federal
agencies in accordance with the provisions and cost principles mandated by the Office
of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-21.  These provisional rates shall be used
for forward pricing and billing purposes for the Stevens Institute of Technology's
Fiscal Year 2001 or until amended. This rate determination supersedes all previous
rate agreements/determinations for Fiscal Year 2001.

SECTION I: RATES - TYPE:  PROVISIONAL (PROV)

Facilities & Administrative Cost (Indirect) Rates:

                                   On     
Type    From      To               Campus    Base    Applicable To       

PROV    7/1/00    Until Amended    47.0%     (a)     Organized Research   (1)

PROV    7/1/00    Until Amended    37.0%     (a)     Organized Research   (2)

                          DISTRIBUTION BASE

The following bases are applicable to the above cited rates:

     (a)  Modified Total Direct Cost (MTDC), as defined in OMB Circular A-21, consists
          of salaries and wages, fringe benefits, materials and supplies, services,
          travel and subgrants and subcontracts up to the first $25,000 of each
          subgrant or subcontract (regardless of the period covered by the
          subgrant or subcontract).  Equipment (see definition in Section II,
          paragraph F), capital expenditures, charges for patient care and tuition
          remission, rental costs, scholarships, and fellows as well as the portion
          of each subgrant and subcontract in excess of $25,000 is excluded.

                            APPLICABLE TO

     (1)  Applies to only DOD contracts awarded on or after November 30, 1993 in
          accordance with and under the authority of DFARS 231.303(1).  See
          Section II, Part D thereof.

     (2)  Applies to DOD contracts awarded before November 30, 1993, all Non-DOD
          Instruments, and all DOD Grants.
                                                                       
SECTION II - GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS
                                                                      
A.  LIMITATIONS:  Use of the rates set forth under Section I of this agreement is
expressly subject to any statutory or administrative limitations and is
applicable to a given grant, contract, or other agreement only to the extent that
funds are available and consistent with any and all limitations of cost clauses or
provisions, if any, contained therein.  Acceptance of any or all of the rates
agreed to herein is predicated upon all the following conditions: (1) that no
costs other than those incurred by the grantee/contractor were included in its
indirect cost pool as finally accepted and that all such costs are legal
obligations of the grantee/contractor and allowable under the governing and
applicable cost principles; (2) that the same costs that have been treated as
indirect costs are not claimed as direct costs; (3) that similar types of costs
have been accorded consistent accounting treatment; and (4) that the information
provided by the contractor/grantee, which was used as the basis for the acceptance
of the rate(s) agreed to herein and expressly relied upon by the Government
accepting the said rates, is not subsequently found to be materially incomplete or
inaccurate.

B.  ACCOUNTING CHANGES: The provisional rates contained in Section I of this
agreement are based on the accounting system in effect at the time this agreement
was established. Changes to the method(s) of accounting for costs which affects
the amount of reimbursement resulting from the use of these rates requires the
express and written approval of the authorized representative of the cognizant
negotiating agency for the Government prior to implementation of any such changes.
Such changes include but are not limited to changes in the charging of a
particular type of cost from indirect to direct.  Failure on the part of the
grantee/contractor to obtain the required approval may result in subsequent cost
disallowances.

C.  USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES: The provisional rates set forth in SECTION I
hereof were established in accordance with and under the authority set forth in
OMB Circular A-21. Accordingly, such rates shall be applied, to the extent
provided in such circular, to grants and contracts to which OMB Circular A-21
is applicable, subject to any limitations in part A of this section. Copies of
this document may be provided by either party to other Federal agencies which
have or intend to issue or award grants and/or contracts to Stevens Institute
of Technology to use the stated rates or to otherwise provide such agencies
with documentary notice of this agreement and its terms and conditions.

D.  APPLICATION OF INDIRECT COST RATES TO DOD CONTRACTS/SUBCONTRACTS: In
accordance with DFARS 231.303, no limitation (unless waived by the
institution) may be placed on the reimbursement of otherwise allowable
indirect costs incurred by an institution of higher education under a DOD
contract awarded on or after November 30, 1993, unless the same limitation is
applied uniformly to all other organizations performing similar work.  It
has been determined by the Department of Defense that such limitation is not
being uniformly applied.  Accordingly, the rates cited "(1)" of Section I, as
explained under the title "APPLICABLE TO", do not reflect the application of
the 26% limitation on administrative indirect costs imposed by OMB Circular
A-21 where as "(2)" does so.

E.   PROVISIONAL RATES: The provisional rates contained in this agreement
are subject to unilateral amendment by the Government or bilateral amendment
by the contracting parties at any time.

F.  SPECIAL REMARKS: The definition of equipment acquired on or before
June 30, 1996 is equipment having a useful life of more than one year and
an acquisition cost which equals or exceeds $500. The definition of
equipment acquired after June 30, 1996 is equipment having a useful life
of more than one year and an acquisition cost which equals or exceeds
$5,000.   


ACCEPTANCE:

FOR STEVENS INSTITUTE                   FOR THE GOVERNMENT:
OF TECHNOLOGY:

/s/                                     /s/
SUSAN VOGT                              DEBORAH K. RAFI
Vice President for Administration       Contracting Officer
     & Finance


19 June 2000                            19 June 2000
Date                                    Date

FOR INFORMATION CONCERNING THIS AGREEMENT CONTACT:

          OFFICE OF NAVAL RESEARCH
          DEBORAH K. RAFI  
          ONR 242 / ROOM 704
          800 N. QUINCY STREET
          ARLINGTON, VA 22217
          (703) 696-5641
          Email: rafid@onr.navy.mil