CllgVA Virginia Institute of Marine Science 540737652 2/11/00  0143

             NEGOTIATION AGREEMENT 

Institution: COLLEGE OF WILLIAM & MARY
             VIRGINIA INSTITUTE OF MARINE SCIENCE (VIMS)
             WILLIAMSBURG, VIRGINIA 23187-8795

The Facilities and Administrative rates contained herein are for use on
grants, contracts and/or other agreements issued or awarded to the
Virginia Institute of Marine Science (VIMS) by all Federal Agencies of the
United States of America, in accordance with the cost principles mandated
by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-21.  These rates
shall be used for forward pricing and billing purposes at VIMS for Fiscal
Years 2001 and 2002 (1 July 2000 through 30 June 2002). This rate
agreement supersedes all previous rate agreements/determinations for
Fiscal Years 2001 and 2002.
                                                                 

SECTION I:  RATES - TYPE: PREDETERMINED (PRED)
                                                                 

TYPE    FROM    TO        RATE   BASE     APPLICABLE TO        Location

Pred    7/01/00 6/30/01   40.93%  (a)     Organized Research    On-Campus

Pred    7/01/01 6/30/02   40.93%  (a)     Organized Research    On-Campus

                          DISTRIBUTION BASE

(a)  Modified Total Direct Cost (MTDC), as defined in OMB Circular A-21,
consisting of all salaries and wages, fringe benefits, materials and
supplies, services, travel, and subgrants and subcontracts up to the first
$25,000 of each subgrant or subcontract (regardless of the period covered
by the subgrant or subcontract). The portion of each subgrant and  
subcontract in excess of $25,000 shall be excluded from modified total
direct costs. Also excluded from the base are Service Center costs
(vessels, nutrient analysis, publications and airplanes).

SECTION II - GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS

A.   LIMITATIONS:  Use of the rates set forth under Section I is subject
to any statutory or administrative limitations and is applicable to a
given grant, contract or other agreement only to the extent that funds are
available and consistent with any and all limitations of cost clauses or
provisions, if any, contained therein.  Acceptance of the rates agreed to
herein is predicated upon all of the following conditions: (1) that no
costs other than those incurred by the grantee/contractor were included in
this indirect cost pool as finally accepted and that such costs are legal
obligations of the grantee/contractor and allowable under governing cost
principles; (2) that the same costs that have been treated as indirect
costs are not claimed as direct costs; (3) that similar types of costs
have been accorded consistent accounting treatment; and (4) that the
information provided by the grantee/contractor, which was used as the
basis for acceptance of the rates agreed to herein and expressly relied
upon by the Government in negotiating and accepting the said rates, is not
subsequently found to be materially incomplete or inaccurate.

B.   ACCOUNTING CHANGES:  The rates contained in Section I of this
agreement are based on the accounting system in effect at the time the
agreement was negotiated.  Changes to the method(s) of accounting for
costs which affect the amount of reimbursement resulting from the use of
these rates require the written approval of the authorized representative
of the cognizant negotiating agency for the Government prior to
implementation of any such changes.  Such changes include but are not
limited to changes in the charging of a particular type of costs from
indirect to direct.  Failure to obtain such approval may result in
subsequent cost disallowances.

C.   PREDETERMINED RATES: This type of rate is considered final and not
subject to adjustment in accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular
A-21 and the Federal Acquisition Regulation, subject to the limitations
contained in Part A of this section.

D.   USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES: 

     The rates set forth in Section I hereof were negotiated in
accordance with and under the authority set forth in OMB Circular A-21. 
Accordingly, such rates shall be applied to the extent provided in such
circular to grants and contracts to which OMB Circular A-21 is applicable, 
subject to any limitations in part A of this section.  Copies of this
document may be provided by either party to other Federal agencies which
have or intend to issue or award grants and contracts using these rates or
otherwise provide such agencies with documentary notice of this agreement
and its terms and conditions.


FOR THE INSTITUTE:                      FOR THE U.S GOVERNMENT:

/s/                                     /s/                                                              
E. A. BRUMMER                           MICHAEL KUC
Director of Financial Operations        Contracting Officer



2/2/00                                  2/11/00                                                                 
Date                                    Date



         For information concerning this agreement contact:
                      OFFICE OF NAVAL RESEARCH
                             Michael Kuc
                       INDIRECT COSTS/ONR 242
                       800 N. QUINCY STREET
                        ARLINGTON, VA  22217
                        PHONE: (703) 696-2571
