CllgMA Massachusettsetts Institute of Technology 5/29/01 0207

              PROVISIONAL RATE AGREEMENT 
 
Institution:  MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY	
              CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS  02139	

The Facilities & Administrative (F&A) cost rates contained herein are for use on grants,
contracts and/or other agreements issued or awarded to the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology (MIT) by all Federal Agencies of the United States of America, in accordance
with the provisions and cost principles mandated by Office of Management and Budget
(OMB) Circular A-21.  These rates shall be used for forward pricing and billing purposes
beginning with MIT=s Fiscal Year 2003. This rate agreement supersedes all previous rate
agreements / determinations for Fiscal Year 2003.  

SECTION I: RATES - TYPE:  PROVISIONAL (PROV) 
 
TYPE	FROM     TO              RATE     BASE   APPLICABLE TO         LOCATION

PROV    7/1/02   Until Amended   65.50%   (a)    Organized Research    On Campus

PROV    7/1/02   Until Amended   10.00%   (a)    Organized Research    Off Campus

                     DISTRIBUTION BASE
          
(a)   Modified Total Direct Cost (MTDC), as defined in OMB Circular A-21, consisting 
of all salaries and wages, fringe benefits, materials and supplies, services, travel,
and subgrants and subcontracts up to the first $25,000 each (regardless of the period
covered by the subgrant or subcontract); and excluding equipment, capital expenditures,
charges for tuition remission, rental costs, scholarships and fellowships as well as
the portion of each subgrant and subcontract in excess of $25,000. 
		
SECTION II - GENERAL                                                    

A.   LIMITATIONS:  Use of the rates set forth under Section I is subject to any
statutory or administrative limitations and is applicable to a given grant or
contract only to the extent that funds are available.  Acceptance of the rates
agreed to herein is predicated upon all of the following conditions: (1) that
no costs other than those incurred by the grantee/contractor were included in this 
indirect cost pool as finally accepted and that such costs are legal obligations
of the grantee/contractor and allowable under governing cost principles, (2) that
the same costs that have been treated as indirect costs are not claimed as direct
costs, (3) that similar types of costs have been accorded consistent accounting
treatment, and (4) that the information provided by the grantee/contractor which
was used as a basis for acceptance of the rates agreed to herein, and expressly
relied upon by the Government in establishing and accepting the said rates is not 
subsequently found to be materially incomplete or inaccurate.          

B.  ACCOUNTING CHANGES: The provisional rates contained in Section I of this 
agreement are based on the accounting system in effect at the time the agreement
was established.  Changes to the method(s) of accounting for costs, which affect
the amount of reimbursement resulting from the use of these rates require the
prior approval of the authorized representative of the cognizant negotiation
agency.  Such changes include but are not limited to changes in the charging 
of a particular type of cost from indirect to direct.  Failure to obtain such
approval may result in subsequent cost disallowances.

C.  USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES: The rates set forth in Section I were 
established in accordance with and under the authority set forth in OMB
Circular A-21.  Accordingly, such rates shall be applied to the extent
provided in such Circular to grants and contracts to which OMB Circular
A-21 applies, subject to any limitations in part A of this section.  
Copies of this document may be provided by either party to other
federal agencies which have or intend to issue or award sponsored
agreements using these rates or to otherwise provide such agencies
with documentary notice of this agreement and its terms and conditions.

D.  PROVISIONAL RATES: The provisional rates contained in this agreement
are subject to unilateral amendment by the Government or bilateral
amendment by the contracting parties at any time.

E.  COST CATEGORIES:                                                                                                            
        
1.  The following cost categories are normally treated as direct
costs by this institution:

     a.  Salaries and wages including overtime and sick leave pay
     b.  Employee fringe benefits
     c.  Materials, supplies, and fabricated parts directly related
         to the research agreement
     d.  Equipment or other facilities when approved by the sponsoring
         agency and/or provided for by the terms of the research agreement
     e.  Consultants
     f.  Communication, publication and mailing
     g.  Travel expenses
     h.  Shipping charges
     i.  Tuition remission

2.  The following cost categories are normally treated as indirect costs
by this institution:

     a.  Departmental administration
     b.  Laboratory directors
     c.  Library
     d.  Medical
     e.  Contract administration
     f.  Student services
     g.  Plant operations - Normal plant and special plant
     h.  Building use charge
     i.  Equipment depreciation
     j.  General administration
     k.  Campus general administration
     l.  Nuclear reactor
     m.  Employee benefits residual
     n.  Interest 

F.  SPECIAL REMARKS: 

1.  Off Campus rates are used when the preponderance of effort is performed
at Lincoln Laboratory, Haystack Observatory or other off-site locations.

2.  The provisional rates contained in this agreement are based, in part,
on the institution's  alternate allocation base for library costs.  The
Government has not accepted the methodology or results of this alternate
allocation base, but has agreed to partially utilize the results of the alternate 
allocation base as a basis for establishing the institute=s FY 2003 provisional
F&A cost rates.  Use of this methodology is on a non-precedent setting basis, and
does not imply Government acceptance of the results of the library cost alternate
allocation base in this agreement or any other F&A cost rate negotiation.

3. The establishment of these rates by the Government does not represent an
agreement with accounting systems and methodologies.

4.  Signature of this agreement by the authorized representatives of MIT and
the Government acknowledges and affirms the Institute=s request for waiver of
the prohibition contained in DFARS 231.303 (1) and the Government=s exercise
of its discretion contained in DFARS 231.303 (2) to waive the prohibition
in DFARS 231.303 (1).  The waiver request by MIT is made to simplify the 
Institute=s overall management of DOD cost reimbursement under DOD contracts.


FOR MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE         	     FOR THE U.S. GOVERNMENT:
OF TECHNOLOGY:


/s/					     /s/					
Julie T. Norris				     Deborah K. Rafi
Director, Office of Sponsored Programs	     Contracting Officer                                 

May 28 2001				     May 29 2001			
Date					     Date


For information concerning this document contact:
Deborah K. Rafi
Office of Naval Research
ONR 242/Rm 704
800 N. Quincy Street
Arlington, VA  22217
(703) 696-5641
E-mail: rafid@onr.navy.mil
