

NPrf National Marrow Donor Program 840865803 9/28/01  0217

               PROVISIONAL RATE AGREEMENT

INSTITUTION:  National Marrow Donor Program
              Minneapolis, Minnesota 55413

The Indirect Cost and Fringe Benefit rates contained herein are for use on grants,
contracts and/or other agreements issued or awarded to the National Marrow Donor
Program (NMDP) by all Federal Agencies of the United States of America, in
accordance with the cost principles and provisions mandated by the Office of
Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-122.  These rates shall be used for
forward pricing and billing purposes for the NMDP’s Fiscal Year 2002 or until
amended.

SECTION I:  RATES - TYPE: PROVISIONAL  (PROV)

                        Effective Period                
Type   Category         From      To              Rate      Base	

Prov   Indirect Cost    10/1/01   Until Amended   16.32%    (a)	 

Prov   Fringe Benefit   10/1/01   Until Amended   36.08%    (b) 

                         DISTRIBUTION BASES:

(a) Total Direct Cost, consisting of labor, fringe benefits, subcontracts and
    other direct costs.

(b) Total Labor Dollars, both direct and indirect.

SECTION II - GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS

A. LIMITATIONS:  Use of the rates set forth under Section I is subject to
any statutory or administrative limitations and is applicable to a given
grant, contract or other agreement only to the extent that funds are
available and consistent with any and all limitations of cost clauses or 
provisions, if any, contained therein.  Acceptance of the rates agreed to
herein is predicated upon all the following conditions: (1) that no costs
other than those incurred by the grantee/contractor were included in the
indirect cost pool as finally accepted and that all such costs are legal 
obligations of the grantee/contractor and allowable under governing cost
principles; (2) that the same costs that have been treated as indirect
costs are not claimed as direct costs; (3) that similar types of costs
have been accorded consistent accounting treatment; and (4) that the
information provided by the contractor/grantee, which was used as the
basis for the acceptance of the rates agreed to herein and expressly
relied upon by the Government in establishing and accepting the said
rates, is not subsequently found to be materially incomplete or inaccurate.

B. ACCOUNTING CHANGES: The rates contained in Section I of this agreement
are based on the accounting system in effect at the time this agreement
was established.  Changes to the method(s) of accounting for costs which
affects the amount of reimbursement resulting from the use of these rates
require the written approval of the authorized representative of the cognizant 
negotiating agency for the Government prior to implementation of any such
changes.  Such changes include but are not limited to changes in the charging
of a particular type of cost from indirect to direct.  Failure to obtain such
approval may result in subsequent cost disallowances.

C. USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES: The rates set forth in Section I hereof were 
established in accordance with and under the authority set forth in OMB
Circular A-122.  Accordingly, such rates shall be applied to the extent
provided in such circular to grants, contracts and other agreements to which
OMB Circular A-122 is applicable, subject to any limitations in part A of
this section.  Copies of this document may be provided by either party to 
other Federal agencies which have or intend to issue or award agreements using
these rates, or to otherwise provide such agencies with documentary notice of
this determination and its terms and conditions. 

D. PROVISIONAL RATES: The provisional rates contained in this agreement are
subject to unilateral amendment by the Government or bilateral amendment by
the contracting parties at any time.

The undersigned hereby declare that the terms of this document have been
completely read and are fully understood and voluntarily accepted.

The individuals executing this agreement are authorized to execute for and
on behalf of the parties for whom they sign and do so as their free and
voluntary act, recognizing this agreement may be canceled by either party,
in which case the Government may establish unilateral provisional rates.

FOR THE NATIONAL MARROW 		FOR THE GOVERNMENT:
    DONOR PROGRAM

/s/					/s/		
GORDON  C.  BRYAN            		DEBORAH K. RAFI
Chief  Financial Officer                Contracting Officer

September 25, 2001			September 28, 2001
Date					Date


For information concerning this document contact:
DEBORAH K. RAFI			  PHONE: (703) 696-5641
OFFICE OF NAVAL RESEARCH	  E-MAIL: rafid@onr.navy.mil
800 N. QUINCY STREET, ROOM 704
ARLINGTON, VA 22217-5660

