NprfMN National Marrow Donor Program 840865803 4/27/01 0203

              NEGOTIATION AGREEMENT

INSTITUTION:  National Marrow Donor Program
              Minneapolis, Minnesota 55413

The Indirect Cost and Fringe Benefit rates contained herein are for use on grants,
contracts and/or other agreements issued or awarded to the National Marrow Donor
Program (NMDP) by all Federal Agencies of the United States of America, in
accordance with the cost principles and provisions mandated by the Office of
Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-122.  These rates shall be used for
forward pricing and billing purposes for the NMDP=s Fiscal Year 2001. This rate
agreement supersedes all previous rate agreements for Fiscal Year 2001.

SECTION I:  RATES - TYPE: FIXED AND CARRY-FORWARD PROVISIONS  (FIXED)
 
                          Effective Period 
Type     Category         From       To         Rate       Base	

Fixed	Indirect Cost     10/1/00    9/30/01    16.32%     (a)	 
Fixed	Fringe Benefit    10/1/00    9/30/01    36.08%     (b) 

                          DISTRIBUTION BASES:

(a)   Total Direct Cost , consisting of  labor, fringe benefits, subcontracts
and other direct costs.

(b)   Total Labor Dollars , both direct and indirect.

SECTION II - GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS

A. LIMITATIONS: Use of the rates set forth under Section I is subject to any
statutory or administrative limitations and is applicable to a given grant,
contract or other agreement only to the extent that funds are available and
consistent with any and all limitations of cost clauses or provisions, if
any, contained therein.  Acceptance of the rates agreed to herein is
predicated upon all the following conditions: (1) that no costs other than
those incurred by the grantee/contractor were included in the indirect cost
pool as finally accepted and that all such costs are legal obligations of
the grantee/contractor and allowable under governing cost principles; (2)
that the same costs that have been treated as indirect costs are not claimed
as direct costs; (3) that similar types of costs have been accorded
consistent accounting treatment; and (4) that the information provided by
the contractor/grantee, which was used as the basis for the acceptance of
the rates agreed to herein and expressly relied upon by the Government in
establishing and accepting the said rates, is not subsequently found to be
materially incomplete or inaccurate.

B. ACCOUNTING CHANGES: The rates contained in Section I of this agreement
are based on the accounting system in effect at the time this agreement
was established.  Changes to the method(s) of accounting for costs which
affects the amount of reimbursement resulting from the use of these rates
require the written approval of the authorized representative of the
cognizant negotiating agency for the Government prior to implementation of
any such changes.  Such changes include but are not limited to changes in
the charging of a particular type of cost from indirect to direct.  Failure
to obtain such approval may result in subsequent cost disallowances.

C. USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES: The rates set forth in Section I hereof
were established in accordance with and under the authority set forth in
OMB Circular A-122.  Accordingly, such rates shall be applied to the extent
provided in such circular to grants, contracts and other agreements to which
OMB Circular A-122 is applicable, subject to any limitations in part A of
this section.  Copies of this document may be provided by either party to
other Federal agencies which have or intend to issue or award agreements
using these rates, or to otherwise provide such agencies with documentary
notice of this determination and its terms and conditions. 

D. FIXED RATES: The fixed rates in this agreement are based on estimates of
costs for Fiscal Year 2001. When actual costs for this period are
determined, an adjustment will be made to the rates of a future year to
recognize the difference between the Fiscal Year 2001 estimated costs used
to establish the fixed rates and the Fiscal Year 2001 negotiated actual costs.

E. LIQUIDATION OF PRIOR YEAR CARRY FORWARD AMOUNTS: The fixed rates set
forth herein include final carry forward amounts from Fiscal Year 2000 as
established by Negotiation Agreement dated April 27, 2001:

        Indirect Cost Rate:                 $ 98,014  Under-recovery
        Fringe Benefit Rate:               ($ 35,499) Over-recovery

The undersigned hereby declare that the terms of this document have been
completely read and are fully understood and voluntarily accepted. The
individuals executing this agreement are authorized to execute for and
on behalf of the parties for whom they sign and do so as their free and
voluntary act.


FOR THE NATIONAL MARROW 			FOR THE GOVERNMENT:
         DONOR PROGRAM:


/s/                                            	/s/
GORDON C. BRYAN        				DEBORAH K. RAFI        
Chief Financial Officer                        	Contracting Officer      
                                  
April 23, 2001   		                April 27, 2001                   
Date						Date


For information concerning this document contact:
DEBORAH K. RAFI
OFFICE OF NAVAL RESEARCH
INDIRECT COSTS/ONR 242
800 N. QUINCY STREET, ROOM 704
ARLINGTON, VA 22217-5660
PHONE: (703) 696-5641
E-MAIL: rafid@onr.navy.mil
