

CllgNM New Mexico State University 856000401 10/3/01  0218

                NEGOTIATION AGREEMENT

INSTITUTION:	NEW MEXICO STATE UNIVERSITY
                LAS CRUCES, NM 88003

The Facility and Administrative Cost rates and Fringe Benefits rates contained
herein are for use on all grants and/or contracts with all Federal agencies in
accordance with the provisions and cost principles mandated by the Office of
Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-21.  These provisional rates shall be
used for forward pricing and billing purposes for New Mexico State University
effective July 1, 2001 until amended. This rate agreement supersedes all
previous rate agreements/determinations for Fiscal Year 
2002.

SECTION I: RATES - TYPE:  PROVISIONAL

Type	     From     To             Rate    Base  Applicable To             Location
Facilities and Administrative Rates (Indirect Cost):

Provisional  7-1-01   Until Amended  46.8%   (a)   Sponsored Instruction     All

Provisional  7-1-01   Until Amended  42.9%   (a)   Agricultural Research     All

Provisional  7-1-01   Until Amended  46.8%   (a)   Organized Research        On 
                                                                             Campus

Provisional  7-1-01   Until Amended  26.0%   (a)   Organized Research        Off 
                                                                             Campus

Provisional  7-1-01   Until Amended  29.3%   (a)   Other Sponsored           All
                                                    Activities
 
Provisional  7-1-01   Until Amended  40.4%   (a)   Branch Colleges           All

Provisional  7-1-01   Until Amended  24.8%   (a)   Organized Research (1)    On 
						    Physical Science Lab     Campus

Provisional  7-1-01   Until Amended   4.5%   (a)   Organized Research (1)    Off 
						    Physical Science Lab     Campis

Provisional  7-1-01   Until Amended  29.9%   (a)   Organized Research (2)    On 
						    Physical Science Lab     Campis

Provisional  7-1-01   Until Amended   9.6%   (a)   Organized Research (2)    Off 
						    Physical Science Lab     Campus

Type	     From     To              Rate   Base  Applicable To       	    Location

Fringe Benefits:

Provisional  7-1-01   Until Amended   26.0%  (b)   Regular Employees	     Main 
                                                                             Campus

Provisional  7-1-01   Until Amended   20.0%  (b)   Non-Regular Employees     Main 
                                                                             Campus


Provisional  7-1-01   Until Amended   40.0%  (b)   Federal Employees	     Main 
                                                                             Campus

Provisional  7-1-01   Until Amended   18.3%  (c)   Physical Science Lab	     All

Leave:

Provisional  7-1-01   Until Amended   20.4%  (d)   Physical Science Lab	     All

Allocated Direct Labor:

Provisional  7-1-01   Until Amended   27.6%  (e)   Physical Science Lab	     All

                                 DISTRIBUTION BASES

The following bases are applicable to the above cited rates:

(a)  Modified Total Direct Cost (MTDC), as defined in OMB Circular A-21, consists
of salaries and wages, fringe benefits, materials and supplies, services, travel and
subgrants and subcontracts up to the first $25,000 of each subgrant or subcontract
(regardless of the period covered by the subgrant or subcontract).  Equipment,
capital expenditures, charges for patient care and tuition remission, rental costs,
scholarships, and fellows as well as the portion of each subgrant and subcontract
in excess of $25,000 is excluded.

(b)  Direct staff salaries and wages (including overtime expense, straight and
premium) and employee leave benefits.

(c)  Direct staff salaries and wages (including overtime expense, straight and
premium),  allocated direct labor, and employee leave benefits.

(d)  Direct staff salaries and wages (excluding overtime expense, straight or
premium) and allocated direct labor.

(e)  Direct staff and student salaries and wages (excluding overtime expense,
straight and premium, and sabbatical leave).

                                  APPLICABLE TO

(1) Applies to all Non-DOD instruments, all DOD grants, and all DOD contracts
    awarded before November 30, 1993 (See Section II, paragraph E).  (Capped)

(2) Applies only to DOD contracts awarded on or after November 30, 1993 in
    accordance with and under the authority of DFARS 231.303 (1) (See Section
    II, paragraph E).  (Uncapped)
                                                                     
SECTION II - GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS
                                                                     
A.  LIMITATIONS:  Use of the rates set forth under Section I of this agreement is
expressly subject to any statutory or administrative limitations and is
applicable to a given grant, contract, or other agreement only to the extent that
funds are available and consistent with any and all limitations of cost clauses
or provisions, if any, contained therein.  Acceptance of any or all of the rates
agreed to herein is predicated upon all the following conditions: (1) that no
costs other than those incurred by the grantee/contractor were included in its
indirect cost pool as finally accepted and that all such costs are legal
obligations of the grantee/contractor and allowable under the governing and
applicable cost principles; (2) that the same costs that have been treated as
indirect costs are not claimed as direct costs; (3) that similar types of costs
have been accorded consistent accounting treatment; and (4) that the information
provided by the contractor/grantee, which was used as the basis for the
acceptance of the rate(s) agreed to herein and expressly relied upon by the
Government accepting the said rates, is not subsequently found to be materially
incomplete or inaccurate.

B.  ACCOUNTING CHANGES: The provisional rates contained in Section I of this
agreement are based on the accounting system in effect at the time this
agreement was established. Changes to the method(s) of accounting for costs which
affects the amount of reimbursement resulting from the use of these rates
requires the express and written approval of the authorized representative of
the cognizant negotiating agency for the Government prior to implementation of
any such changes.  Such changes include but are not limited to changes in the
charging of a particular type of cost from indirect to direct.  Failure on the
part of the grantee/contractor to obtain the required approval may result in
subsequent cost disallowances.

C.  USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES: The provisional rates set forth in SECTION
I hereof were established in accordance with and under the authority set forth
in OMB Circular A-21. Accordingly, such rates shall be applied, to the extent
provided in such circular, to grants and contracts to which OMB Circular 
A-21 is applicable, subject to any limitations in part A of this section. Copies
of this document may be provided by either party to other Federal agencies which
have or intend to issue or award grants and/or contracts to New Mexico State
University to use the stated rates or to otherwise provide such agencies with 
documentary notice of this agreement and its terms and conditions.

D.   PROVISIONAL RATES: The provisional rates contained in this agreement are
subject to unilateral amendment by the Government or bilateral amendment by the
contracting parties at any time.

E.  APPLICATION OF INDIRECT COST RATES TO DOD CONTRACTS/SUBCONTRACTS:
In accordance with DFARS 231.303, no limitation (unless waived by the
institution) may be placed on the reimbursement of otherwise allowable indirect
costs incurred by an institution of higher education under a DOD contract
awarded on or after November 30, 1993, unless the same limitation is applied 
uniformly to all other organizations performing similar work.  It has been
determined by the Department of Defense that such limitation is not being
uniformly applied.  Accordingly, the rates cited (2) of Section I, as 
explained under the title "APPLICABLE TO" do not reflect the application of
the 26% limitation on administrative indirect costs imposed by OMB Circular A-21,
whereas (1) does so.

F.  SPECIAL REMARKS: Signature of this agreement by the authorized
representatives of New Mexico State University and the Government, acknowledges
and affirms the University’s request for waiver of the prohibition contained in
DFARS 231.303(1) and the Government’s exercise of its discretion under DFARS 
231.303(2) to waive the prohibition in DFARS 231.303(1).  The waiver request by
New Mexico State University is made to simplify the University’s overall
management of DOD cost reimbursements under DOD contracts.
  
Acceptance:

FOR NEW MEXICO STATE UNIVERSITY:		FOR THE GOVERNMENT:
                 


By:    /s/   	                               	By:	/s/				 
      JAMES L. McDONOUGH				DEBORAH K. RAFI
      Vice President for Business			Contracting Officer
       and Finance

/
Date: October 2, 2001		       		Date: 	October 3, 2001		


FOR INFORMATION CONCERNING THIS AGREEMENT CONTACT:

OFFICE OF NAVAL RESEARCH
DEBORAH K. RAFI  
800 N. QUINCY STREET
BCT #1, Rm 704
ARLINGTON, VA 22217
(703) 696-5641
E-mail: rafid@onr.navy.mil
