CllgPA University of Scranton  240795495 5/11/01  0205

NEGOTIATION AGREEMENT


INSTITUTION:	University of Scranton
		Scranton, PA  18510-4694

The Facilities and Administrative (F&A) and Fringe Benefit rates contained herein are
for use on all grants, contracts, and/or other agreements issued or awarded to the
University of Scranton by all Federal agencies of the United States of America in
accordance with the cost principles mandated by the Office of Management and Budget
(OMB) Circular A-21. These rates shall be used for forward pricing and billing
purposes for the University of Scranton's Fiscal Years 2002 through 2004.
This rate agreement supercedes all previous rate agreements/determinations for
Fiscal Years 2002/3/4.

SECTION I: RATES - TYPE:   PREDETERMINED

TYPE	FROM	TO		   RATE	        BASE      APPLICABLE TO	    LOCATION

Facilities and Administrative Rate:				

Pred	6/1/01	5/31/04	           54.03%       (a)	  All Programs	    On Campus

Fringe Benefit Rate:

Pred	6/1/01	5/31/04	           27.67%	(b)       All Programs	    All

                          DISTRIBUTION BASE
 
(a) Direct salaries and wages
(b) Total salaries and wages.

SECTION II - GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS

A.  LIMITATIONS:  Use of the rates set forth under Section I is expressly subject to any
statutory or administrative limitations and is applicable to a given grant, contract, or
other agreement only to the extent that funds are available and consistent with any and
all limitations of cost clauses or provisions, if any, contained therein. Acceptance of
any or all of the rates agreed to herein is predicated upon all the following
conditions: (1) that no costs other than those incurred by the grantee/contractor were
included in its indirect cost pool as finally accepted and that all such costs are legal
obligations of the grantee/contractor and allowable under the governing and applicable
cost principles; (2) that the same costs that have been treated as indirect costs are
not claimed as direct costs; (3) that similar types of costs have been accorded
consistent accounting treatment; and (4) that the information provided by the
contractor/grantee, which was used as the basis for the acceptance of the rate(s)
agreed to herein and expressly relied upon by the Government in negotiating and
accepting the said rates, is not subsequently found to be materially incomplete or
inaccurate.

B.  ACCOUNTING CHANGES: The rates contained in Section I of this agreement are based on
the accounting system in effect at the time this agreement was negotiated. Changes to
the method(s) of accounting for costs which affects the amount of reimbursement
resulting from the use of these rates requires the express and written approval of
the authorized representative of the cognizant negotiating agency for the Government
prior to implementation of any such changes.  Such changes include but are not limited
to changes in the charging of a particular type of cost from indirect to direct.
Failure on the part of the grantee/contractor to obtain the required approval may
result in subsequent cost disallowances.

C.  USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES: The rates set forth in Section I hereof were
negotiated in accordance with and under the authority set forth in OMB Circular A-21.
Accordingly, such rates shall be applied, to the extent provided in such circular,
to grants and contracts to which OMB Circular A-21 is applicable, subject to any
limitations in part A of this section. Copies of this document may be provided by
either party to other Federal agencies which have or intend to issue or award grants
and/or contracts to the University of Scranton to use the stated rates or to otherwise
provide such agencies with documentary notice of this agreement and its terms and
conditions.
           
D. PREDETERMINED RATES: This type of rate is considered final, and not subject to
adjustment in accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-21 and the Federal
Acquisition Regulation, subject to the limitations contained in Part A of this Section.


FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF SCRANTON:		        FOR THE GOVERNMENT:


By:    /S/                                      By: /S/
       David E. Christiansen	    		Deborah K. Rafi
       Vice President of Finance/Treasurer      Contracting Officer
    
Date: 5/11/01	                        	Date: 5/11/01	                         


For information concerning this agreement contact:	
Linda B. Shipp (shippl@onr.navy.mil)
Office of Naval Research, Indirect Cost Branch/ONR 242	
800 N. Quincy Street, Room 704, Arlington, VA  22217
(703) 696-8559, FAX:  (703) 696-4430
