NprfNY National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse at Columbia
University 521736502 3/27/01

NEGOTIATION AGREEMENT

INSTITUTION:	NATIONAL CENTER ON ADDICTION AND
	        SUBSTANCE ABUSE AT COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY
	        NEW YORK, NY

The indirect cost rate contained herein are for use on all grants, contracts, and/or
other agreements issued or awarded to the National Center on Addiction and Substance
Abuse at Columbia University (CASA) by all Federal agencies of the United States of
America in accordance with the cost principles mandated by the Office of Management
and Budget (OMB) Circular A-122. This rate shall be used for forward pricing and
billing purposes for CASA's Fiscal Year (FY) 2001. This rate agreement supercedes
all previous rate agreements/determinations for Fiscal Year 2001.

SECTION I:  RATES - TYPE:  PROVISIONAL (PROV)

TYPE	FROM	TO	   RATE	  BASE	APPLICABLE TO	LOCATION

PROV	1/1/01	12/31/01   37%	  (a)	All Programs	All
						
                           DISTRIBUTION BASE
 
(a) Total direct costs excluding capital expenditures, subcontracts and subgrants.

SECTION II - GENERAL

A. LIMITATIONS:  Use of the rate set forth under Section I is expressly subject to
any statutory or administrative limitations and is applicable to a given grant,
contract, or other agreement only to the extent that funds are available and
consistent with any and all limitations of cost clauses or provisions, if any,
contained therein. Acceptance of the rate agreed to herein is predicated upon all
the following conditions: (1) that no costs other than those incurred by the
grantee/contractor were included in its indirect cost pool as finally accepted and
that all such costs are legal obligations of the grantee/contractor and allowable
under the governing and applicable cost principles; (2) that the same costs that
have been treated as indirect costs are not claimed as direct costs; (3) that
similar types of costs have been accorded consistent accounting treatment; and (4)
that the information provided by the contractor/grantee, which was used as the
basis for the acceptance of the rate agreed to herein and expressly relied upon by
the Government in negotiating and accepting the said rates, is not subsequently
found to be materially incomplete or inaccurate.

B. ACCOUNTING CHANGES:  The rate contained in Section I of this agreement is based
on the accounting system in effect at the time this agreement was negotiated.
Changes to the method(s) of accounting for costs which affect the amount of
reimbursement resulting from the use of this rate requires the prior approval of
the authorized representative of the cognizant negotiation agency prior to
implementation of any such changes.  Such changes include but are not limited to
changes in the charging of a particular type of cost from indirect to direct.
Failure to obtain such approval may result in subsequent cost disallowance.

C. USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES:  The rate set forth in Section I was negotiated
in accordance with and under the authority set forth in OMB Circular A-122.
Accordingly, such rate shall be applied to the extent provided in such Circular
to grants, contracts and other agreements to which OMB Circular A-122 applies,
subject to any limitations in part A of this section.  Copies of this document
may be provided by either party to other federal agencies which have or intend
to issue or award sponsored agreements using this rate or to otherwise provide
such agencies with documentary notice of this agreement and its terms and
conditions.

D. PROVISIONAL RATE: The provisional rate contained in this agreement are subject to
unilateral amendment by the Government or bilateral amendment by the contracting
parties at any time.


FOR THE INSTITUTION:				FOR THE GOVERNMENT:


By:   /S/                                       By: /S/
      Susan P. Brown	 		  	    Deborah K. Rafi
      Secretary/Treasurer			    Contracting Officer 
   

Date: 3/27/01                             	Date: 3/27/01		 	                              

For information concerning this agreement contact:	
Linda B. Shipp (shippl@onr.navy.mil)
Office of Naval Research, Indirect Cost Branch/ONR 242	
800 N. Quincy Street, BCT # 1, Room 704	
Arlington, VA  22217
(703) 696-8559, FAX:  (703) 696-4430
