
CllgCA Stanford University 941156365 7/31/001  0214

                NEGOTIATION AGREEMENT

Institution:	Stanford University
		Stanford, California 94305

The Fringe Benefits Rates contained herein are for use on grants and contracts with
all Federal Agencies in accordance with the provisions and cost principles mandated
by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-21.  These rates shall be
used for forward pricing and billing purposes for Stanford University’s Fiscal Year
2002.  This rate agreement supersedes all previous rate agreements/determinations
for Fringe Benefits for Fiscal Year 2002.

Section I: Rates - Type:  Fixed and Carry-forward (Fixed)

Fringe Benefits Rates:

Type	From     To	   Rate     Base   Applicable To           Location

Fixed	9/1/01   8/31/02   24.0%    (a)	   Regular Benefits   	   All
							           Eligible Employees

Fixed   9/1/01   8/31/02   11.6%    (a)	   Post-Doctoral	   All
							           Research Affiliates

Fixed	9/1/01   8/31/02    8.1%    (a)	   Contingent Employees    All

                          DISTRIBUTION BASE:

(a) Direct Salaries and Wages including vacation, holidays, and sick leave where
    applicable.

SECTION II - GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS

A.  LIMITATIONS:  Use of the rates set forth under Section I is subject to
any statutory or administrative limitations, and is applicable to a given
grant, contract or other agreement only to the extent that funds are available
and consistent with any and all limitations of cost clauses or provisions, if
any, contained therein.  Acceptance of the rates agreed to herein is predicated
upon all the following conditions: (1) that no costs other than those incurred
by the grantee/contractor were included in the indirect cost pool as finally
accepted and that all such costs are legal obligations of the grantee/contractor
and allowable under governing cost principles; (2) that the same costs that have
been treated as indirect costs are not claimed as direct costs; (3) that similar 
types of costs have been accorded consistent accounting treatment; and (4) that
the information provided by the contractor/grantee, which was used as the basis
for the acceptance of the rates agreed to herein and expressly relied upon by
the Government in negotiating and accepting the said rates, is not subsequently
found to be materially incomplete or inaccurate.

B. ACCOUNTING CHANGES: The rates contained in Section I of this agreement
are based on the accounting system in effect at the time this agreement was
negotiated. Changes to the method(s) of accounting for costs which affects the
amount of reimbursement resulting from the use of these rates require the
written approval of the authorized representative of the cognizant negotiating
agency.  Such changes include but are not limited to changes in the charging of
a particular type of cost from indirect to direct.  Failure to obtain such
approval may result in subsequent cost disallowances.


C. USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES: The rates set forth in Section I hereof were 
negotiated in accordance with and under the authority set forth in OMB Circular
A-21.  Accordingly, such rates shall be applied to the extent provided in such
circular to grants and contracts to which OMB Circular A-21 applies, subject
to any limitations in paragraph A above.  Copies of this document may be
provided by either party to other Federal agencies which have or intend to 
issue or award grants and contracts using these rates as a means of providing
them with early notification of the agreement contained herein.

D.  FIXED FRINGE BENEFITS RATES AND CARRY-FORWARD PROVISION: The Fringe
Benefits rates contained in this agreement are based on estimates of the costs
for FY 2002.  When the actual costs for FY 2002 are determined, adjustments
will be made to the rates of a future year to recognize the difference
between the FY 2002 estimated costs used to establish the fixed rates and the
negotiated actual FY 2002 costs.

E.  CARRY-FORWARD AMOUNTS: The Fringe Benefits rates contained in this
agreement are inclusive of the FY 2000 carry-forwards established by
Negotiation Agreement dated 7 June 2001.  Accordingly, the FY 2000 
carry-forwards are liquidated in their entirety:

FY 2000 Fringe Benefits Carry-Forwards	  University Under/(Over) Recovery

   Regular Benefits – Eligible Employees  ($1,797,000)
   Post-Doctoral Research Affiliates	  ($  365,000)
   Contingent Employees			  ($   60,000)

The undersigned hereby declare that the terms of this document have been completely
read and are fully understood and voluntarily accepted.

The individuals executing this agreement are authorized to execute for and on behalf
of the parties for whom they sign and do so as their free and voluntary act.


FOR STANFORD UNIVERSITY:			FOR THE GOVERNMENT:


/s                                              /s/
RANDALL S. LIVINGSTON				DEBORAH K. RAFI
Vice President for Business Affairs		Contracting Officer
and Chief Financial Officer

July 30, 2001					July 31, 2001			
Date			 			Date

for information concerning this agreement contact:
OFFICE OF NAVAL RESEARCH
DEBORAH K. RAFI
BCT #1, Room 704
800 N. QUINCY STREET
ARLINGTON, VA  22217
PHONE:  (703) 696-5641
e-mail: rafid@onr.navy.mil
