CllgFL Miami-Dade CC 1591210485A1 09/21/95!5022
                   
                       INDIRECT COST RATE AGREEMENT
                          COLLEGE AND UNIVERSITY

ORGANIZATION:

Miami-Dade Community College
11011 S.W. 10th Street
Miami, Florida 33176-3393

DATE: September 21, 1995         
AGREEMENT NO.  95-022            

FILING REFERENCE:  This replaces  
previous Agreement No. 94-016    
dated March 16, 1994             

The rate(s) approved in this Agreement are for use on your grants,
contracts, and other agreements with the Federal Government.

This agreement consists of four parts:  Section I - Rates and Bases; Section
II - Particulars; Section III - Special Remarks; and, Section IV -Approvals.
                                                                 
Section I - Rate(s) and Base(s)
                                                                     
                Effective Period                             Coverage    

TYPE            From        To       Rate    Base  Location Applicability

Final               07-01-93  06-30-94   34.7%   1/     All    All Programs
Provisional     07-01-94  06-30-96   34.7%   1/     All    All Programs

1/ Total direct cost exclusive of any extraordinary or distorting items,
such as equipment purchases, subcontracts, alterations and renovations and
flow-through funds and 25% of student aid funds.

Treatment of Fringe Benefits:   Fringe benefits applicable to direct     
salaries and wages are treated as direct costs.






ORGANIZATION: MIAMI-DADE COMMUNITY COLLEGE               Page 02
                                                                           
Section II - Particulars                                                   

A.  LIMITATIONS:  The rate(s) in this Agreement are subject to any statutory
or administrative limitations and apply to a given grant, contract, or other
agreement only to the extent that funds are available.  Acceptance of the
rate(s) is subject to the following conditions:  (1) Only costs incurred by
the institution were included in its indirect cost pool as finally accepted;
such costs are legal obligations of the institution and are allowable under
the governing cost principles; (2) The same costs that have been treated as
indirect costs are not claimed as direct costs; (3) Similar types of costs
have been accorded consistent accounting treatment, and (4) The information
provided by the Institution which was used to establish the rates is not
later found to be materially incomplete or inaccurate.

B.  ACCOUNTING CHANGES:  If a fixed or predetermined rate is in this
Agreement, it is based on the accounting system purported by the institution
to be in effect during the Agreement period.  Changes to the method of
accounting for costs which affect the amount of reimbursement resulting from
the use of this Agreement require prior approval of the authorized
representative of the cognizant agency.  Such changes include, but are not
limited to, changes in the charging of a particular type of costs from
indirect to direct.  Failure to obtain approval may result in cost
disallowance.

C.  FIXED RATES:  If a fixed rate is in this Agreement, it is based on an
estimate of the costs for the period covered by the rate.  When the actual
costs for this period are determined, an adjustment will be made to a rate
of a future year(s) to compensate for the difference between the costs used
to establish the fixed rate and actual costs.

D.  USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES:  The rates in this Agreement were
approved in accordance with the authority in Office of Management and Budget
Circular A-88, and should be applied to grants, contracts, and other
agreements covered by Office of Management and Budget Circular A-21, subject
to any limitations in A above.  The institution may provide copies of the
Agreement to other Federal Agencies to give them early notification of the
Agreement.

E.  OTHER:  If any Federal contract, grant or other agreement is reimbursing
indirect costs by a means other than the approved rate(s) in this Agreement,
the institution should (1) credit such costs to the affected programs, and
(2) apply the approved rate(s) to the appropriate base to identify the
proper amount of indirect costs allocable to these programs.

ORGANIZATION:  MIAMI-DADE COMMUNITY COLLEGE                       Page 03
                                                                      
Section III - Special Remarks                                              

1.   Our training programs call for the lesser of:  your actual indirect
     cost rate or 8 percent of the total direct costs of the project.  Your
     cost proposal confirmed that your actual indirect cost rate exceeded
     the 8 percent threshold stipulated at Par 75.562 of EDGAR.  In the
     future, for training projects, you are not required to submit detailed
     cost proposals.

2.   Federal programs currently reimbursing indirect costs to this
     Department/Agency by means other than the rate(s) cited in this
     agreement should be credited for such costs and the applicable rate
     cited herein applied to the appropriate base to identify the proper
     amount of indirect costs allocable to the program.
                                                       
Section IV - Approvals                                                     

By the Institution:

Miami-Dade Community College
District Administration
11011 S.W. 10th Street
Miami, Florida 33176
                                 
Signature
                                 
Name
                                  
Title
                            
Date

For the Federal Government:

U.S. Department of Education
600 Independence Ave., SW.
Room 3652, ROB#3        
Washington, DC  20202-4201

                                
Signature

Richard T. Mueller                
Name

Chief,    
Indirect Cost Determination Staff 
Title

September 21, 1995                
Date

Robert L. Webster                
Negotiator

(202) 708-9794                    
Telephone Number
                                     
