CllgNJ Thomas Edison State College 1216000928F1 07/30/96!6154
                   
                       INDIRECT COST RATE AGREEMENT
                          COLLEGE AND UNIVERSITY


ORGANIZATION:

Thomas Edison State College
101 West State Street
Trenton, New Jersey 08608-1176

DATE: July 30, 1996              
AGREEMENT NO.  96-154            

FILING REFERENCE:  This replaces  
previous Agreement No. N/A       
dated N/A                       

The rate(s) approved in this Agreement are for use on your grants,
contracts, and other agreements with the Federal Government.

This agreement consists of four parts:  Section I - Rates and Bases; Section
II - Particulars; Section III - Special Remarks; and, Section IV -Approvals.

Section I - Rate(s) and Base(s)
                                                                         
                Effective Period                             Coverage    

TYPE            From        To       Rate    Base  Location Applicability

Provisional     07-01-96  12-31-97    9.12%   1/    On-Site LSCA Title I
                                                                                  LACA Title II

1/  tal direct cost less items of equipment, alterations and renovations,
flow-through funds and each subcontract costs in excess of $25,000.

Treatment of Fringe Benefits:   Fringe benefits applicable to direct     
salaries and wages are treated as direct costs.




ORGANIZATION: THOMAS EDISON STATE COLLEGE               Page 02
                                                                           
Section II - Particulars                                                   

SCOPE: The indirect cost rate(s) contained herein are for use with grants,
contracts, and other financial assistance agreements awarded by the Federal
Government to the Organization and subject to OMB Circular A-21.

LIMITATIONS: Application of the rate(s) contained in this Agreement is
subject to all statutory or administrative limitations on the use of funds,
and payment of costs hereunder is subject to the availability of
appropriations applicable to a given grant or contract.  Acceptance of the
rate(s) agreed to herein is predicated on the conditions: (A) that no costs
other than those incurred by the Thomas Edison State College were included
in the indirect cost pools as finally accepted, and that such costs are
legal obligations of the Organization and applicable under the governing
cost principles; (B) that the same costs that have been treated as indirect
cost are not claimed as direct costs;   that similar types of information
which are provided by the Organization, and which were used as a basis for
acceptance of rates agreed to herein, are not subsequently found to be
materially incomplete or inaccurate; and (D) that similar types of costs
have been accorded consistent accounting treatment.     

ACCOUNTING CHANGES:  If a fixed or predetermined rate is in this Agreement,
it is based on the accounting system purported by the institution to be in
effect during the Agreement period.  Changes to the method of accounting for
costs which affect the amount of reimbursement resulting from the use of
this Agreement require prior approval of the authorized representative of
the cognizant agency.  Such changes include, but are not limited to, changes
in the charging of a particular type of costs from indirect to direct. 
Failure to obtain approval may result in cost disallowance.

FIXED RATES:  If a fixed rate is in this Agreement, it is based on an
estimate of the costs for the period covered by the rate.  When the actual
costs for this period are determined, an adjustment will be made to a rate
of a future year(s) to compensate for the difference between the costs used
to establish the fixed rate and actual costs.

NOTIFICATION TO OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES: Copies of this document may be
provided to other Federal agencies as a means of notifying them of the
agreement contained herein.

OTHER:  If any Federal contract, grant or other agreement is reimbursing
indirect costs by a means other than the approved rate(s) in this Agreement,
the institution should (1) credit such costs to the affected programs, and
(2) apply the approved rate(s) to the appropriate base to identify the
proper amount of indirect costs allocable to these programs.

ORGANIZATION: THOMAS EDISON STATE COLLEGE                         Page 03
                                                                          
Section III - Special Remarks                                              

1.   This agreement is effective on the date of approval of the Federal
     Government.

2.   Questions regarding this agreement should be directed to the
     Negotiator.

3.   Approval of the rate(s) contained herein does not establish acceptance
     of the State Education Agency's total methodology for the computation
     of indirect cost rates for years other than the year(s) herein cited.
                                                                        
Section IV - Approvals                                                     

By the Institution:

Thomas Edison State College
101 West State Street
Trenton, New Jersey 08608-1176
                                 
Signature
                                 
Name
                                  
Title
                     
Date

For the Federal Government:

U.S. Department of Education
600 Independence Ave., SW.
Room 3652, ROB#3        
Washington, DC  20202-4201

                              
Signature


Richard T. Mueller                
Name

Chief,    
Indirect Cost Determination Staff 
Title


July 30, 1996                     
Date


Robert L. Webster                 
Negotiator


(202) 708-9794                    
Telephone Number
                                     
