CllgKS Emporia State Univ. 1486026732A1 02/05/97!6148
                   
                       INDIRECT COST RATE AGREEMENT
                          COLLEGE AND UNIVERSITY


ORGANIZATION:

Emporia State University
1200 Commercial Street
Emporia, Kansas 66801-5087

DATE: February 5, 1997           
AGREEMENT NO. 96-148             

FILING REFERENCE:  This replaces  
previous Agreement No. 93-028    
dated April 20, 1994            

The rate(s) approved in this Agreement are for use on your grants,
contracts, and other agreements with the Federal Government.

This agreement consists of four parts:  Section I - Rates and Bases; Section
II - Particulars; Section III - Special Remarks; and, Section IV -Approvals.

Section I - Rate(s) and Base(s)
                                                                   
                Effective Period                             Coverage    

TYPE            From        To       Rate    Base  Location Applicability

Provisional     07-01-96  06-30-98   49.0%     1/    All    All Programs 

1/   Total direct salaries and wages, including fringe benefits.  

Treatment of Fringe Benefits:   Fringe benefits applicable to direct     
salaries and wages are treated as direct costs.




ORGANIZATION: EMPORIA STATE UNIVERSITY                   Page 02
                                                                         
Section II - Particulars                                                   

SCOPE: The indirect cost rate(s) contained herein are for use with grants,
contracts, and other financial assistance agreements awarded by the Federal
Government to the Emporia State University and subject to OMB Circular A-21.

LIMITATIONS: Application of the rate(s) contained in this Agreement is
subject to all statutory or administrative limitations on the use of funds,
and payment of costs hereunder is subject to the availability of
appropriations applicable to a given grant or contract.  Acceptance of the
rate(s) agreed to herein is predicated on the conditions: (A) that no costs
other than those incurred by the Organization were included in the indirect
cost pools as finally accepted, and that such costs are legal obligations of
the Organization and applicable under the governing cost principles; (B)
that the same costs that have been treated as indirect cost are not claimed
as direct costs;   that similar types of information which are provided by
the Organization, and which were used as a basis for acceptance of rates
agreed to herein, are not subsequently found to be materially incomplete or
inaccurate; and (D) that similar types of costs have been accorded
consistent accounting treatment.     

ACCOUNTING CHANGES:  If a fixed or predetermined rate is in this Agreement,
it is based on the accounting system purported by the institution to be in
effect during the Agreement period.  Changes to the method of accounting for
costs which affect the amount of reimbursement resulting from the use of
this Agreement require prior approval of the authorized representative of
the cognizant agency.  Such changes include, but are not limited to, changes
in the charging of a particular type of costs from indirect to direct. 
Failure to obtain approval may result in cost disallowance.

FIXED RATES:  If a fixed rate is in this Agreement, it is based on an
estimate of the costs for the period covered by the rate.  When the actual
costs for this period are determined, an adjustment will be made to a rate
of a future year(s) to compensate for the difference between the costs used
to establish the fixed rate and actual costs.

NOTIFICATION TO OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES: Copies of this document may be
provided to other Federal agencies as a means of notifying them of the
agreement contained herein.

OTHER:  If any Federal contract, grant or other agreement is reimbursing
indirect costs by a means other than the approved rate(s) in this Agreement,
the institution should (1) credit such costs to the affected programs, and
(2) apply the approved rate(s) to the appropriate base to identify the
proper amount of indirect costs allocable to these programs.

ORGANIZATION: EMPORIA STATE UNIVERSITY                            Page 03
                                                                           
Section III - Special Remarks                                              

1.   This agreement is effective on the date of approval of the Federal
     Government.

2.   Questions regarding this agreement should be directed to the
     Negotiator.

3.   Approval of the rate(s) contained herein does not establish acceptance
     of the State Education Agency's total methodology for the computation
     of indirect cost rates for years other than the year(s) herein cited.
                                                                        
Section IV - Approvals                                                     

By the Institution:

Emporia State University
1200 Commercial Street
Emporia, Kansas 66801-5087

 Signature
                                  
Name
                            
Title
                                  
Date

For the Federal Government:

U.S. Department of Education
600 Independence Avenue, SW
Room 3523, ROB#3        
Washington, DC  20202-4201
                               
Signature

Richard T. Mueller                
Name

Chief,    
Indirect Cost Determination Staff 
Title

February 5, 1997                  
Date

 Richard Koris                    
Negotiator

(202) 708-8604                    
Telephone Number
                                     