CllgCA Pasadena Community College 195205000A1 6/2/98!8033
 
                  INDIRECT COST RATE AGREEMENT
                     COLLEGE AND UNIVERSITY
 
ORGANIZATION:
Pasadena Community College
1570 E. Colorado Boulevard
Pasadena, California 91106
 
DATE: June 2, 1998 
 
AGREEMENT NO. 98-033 
FILING REFERENCE: This replaces previous 
Agreement No.95-104 and 95-010 
dated July 27, 1995 
 
The rate(s) approved in this Agreement are for use on your grants, contracts, 
and other agreements with the Federal Government.

This agreement consists of four parts: Section I - Rates and Bases; Section II - 
Particulars; Section III - Special Remarks; and, Section IV -Approvals.

Section I - Rate(s) and Base(s)

Effective Period Coverage 

TYPE          From     To         Rate Base Location Applicability
Predetermined 07-01-95 06-30-98   30.0% 1/  On-site  All Programs
Predetermined 07-01-98 06-30-2001 30.0% 1/  On-site  All Programs 

1/	Direct salaries and wages, including fringe benefits. 

Treatment of Fringe Benefits: Fringe benefits applicable to direct salaries and 
wages are treated as direct costs.

Please see special remarks.



 
ORGANIZATION: PASADENA COMMUNITY COLLEGE Page 02

Section II - Particulars 

A. LIMITATIONS: The rate(s) in this Agreement are subject to any statutory or 
administrative limitations and apply to a given grant, contract, or other 
agreement only to the extent that funds are available. Acceptance of the rate(s) 
is subject to the following conditions: (1) Only costs incurred by the 
institution were included in its indirect cost pool as finally accepted; such 
costs are legal obligations of the institution and are allowable under the 
governing cost principles; (2) The same costs that have been treated as indirect 
costs are not claimed as direct costs; (3) Similar types of costs have been 
accorded consistent accounting treatment, and (4) The information provided by 
the Institution which was used to establish the rates is not later found to be 
materially incomplete or inaccurate.

B. ACCOUNTING CHANGES: If a fixed or predetermined rate is in this Agreement, it 
is based on the accounting system purported by the institution to be in 
effect during the Agreement period. Changes to the method of accounting for 
costs which affect the amount of reimbursement resulting from the use of this 
Agreement require prior approval of the authorized representative of the 
cognizant agency. Such changes include, but are not limited to, changes in the 
charging of a particular type of costs from indirect to direct. Failure to 
obtain approval may result in cost disallowance.

C. FIXED RATES: If a fixed rate is in this Agreement, it is based on an estimate 
of the costs for the period covered by the rate. When the actual costs for this 
period are determined, an adjustment will be made to a rate of a future year(s) 
to compensate for the difference between the costs used to establish the fixed 
rate and actual costs.

D. USE BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES: The rates in this Agreement were approved in 
accordance with the authority in Office of Management and Budget Circular A-21, 
and should be applied to grants, contracts, and other agreements covered by 
Office of Management and Budget Circular A-21, subject to any limitations in A 
above. The institution may provide copies of the Agreement to other Federal 
Agencies to give them early notification of the Agreement.

E. OTHER: If any Federal contract, grant or other agreement is reimbursing 
indirect costs by a means other than the approved rate(s) in this Agreement, the 
institution should (1) credit such costs to the affected programs, and (2) apply 
the approved rate(s) to the appropriate base to identify the proper amount of 
indirect costs allocable to these programs.

 
 
 
  
ORGANIZATION: PASADENA COMMUNITY COLLEGE Page 03

Section III - Special Remarks 

1. This agreement is effective on the date of approval of the Federal 
Government.
2.	Questions regarding this agreement should be directed to the Negotiator.
3.	Approval of the rate(s) contained herein does not establish acceptance of 
the State Education Agency's total methodology for the computation of indirect 
cost rates for years other than the year(s) herein cited.
4. U.S. Department of Education training grants containing an eight percent 
indirect cost rate, cannot utilize indirect costs in excess of eight percent to 
satisfy matching or cost sharing requirements (34 CFR 75.562 (c)(3)).

Section IV - Approvals 

By the Institution:

Pasadena Community College
1570 E. Colorado Boulevard
Pasadena, California 91106
 
 
Signature
 
Name
 
Title
 
Date
 
 

For the Federal Government:

U.S. Department of Education
600 Independence Ave., SW.
Room 3523, ROB#3 
Washington, DC 20202-4201
 
Signature
 
Richard T. Mueller 
Name

Chief, Indirect Cost Group 
Title
 
June 2, 1998 
Date
 
Paul J. Brickman 
Negotiator
 
(202) 708-6817 
Telephone Number
	
 

