CllgKS Emporia State Univ. 1486026732A1 1/26/99!8156
 
                 INDIRECT COST RATE AGREEMENT
                    COLLEGE AND UNIVERSITY
 
ORGANIZATION:                           DATE: January 26, 1999 
Emporia State University                AGREEMENT NO. 98-156 
1200 Commercial                         FILING REFERENCE: This replaces 
Emporia, Kansas 66801-5087              Previous Agreement No. 96-148 
                                        dated February 5, 1997 

The rates(s) approved in this Agreement are for use in your grants, contracts, 
and other agreements with the Federal Government.

This agreement consists of four parts: Section I - Rates and Bases; Section II - 
Particulars; Section III - Special Remarks; and, Section IV - Approvals.

Section I - Rate(s) and Base(s)

Effective Period 					 Coverage 

Type 		From     To       Rate   Base  Location   Applicability
Final       07-01-96 06-30-97 50.7%   1/     All      All Programs
Provisional 07-01-97 06-30-99 50.7%   1/     All      All Programs

1/ Total direct salaries and wages including applicable fringe benefits.

Treatment of Fringe Benefits: Fringe benefits applicable to direct salaries and 
wages are treated as direct costs.

 
 

 
ORGANIZATION: EMPORIA STATE UNIVERSITY Page 02 

Section II - Particulars

SCOPE: The indirect cost rate(s) contained herein are for use with grants, 
contracts, and other financial assistance agreements awarded by the Federal 
Government to the Emporia State University and subject to OMB Circular A-21.

LIMITATIONS: Application of the rate(s) contained in this Agreement is subject 
to all statutory or administrative limitations on the use of funds, and payment 
of costs hereunder is subject to the availability of appropriations applicable 
to a given grant or contract. Acceptance of the rate(s) agreed to herein is 
predicated on the conditions: (A) that no costs other than those incurred by the 
Emporia State University were included in the indirect cost pools as finally 
accepted, and that such costs are legal obligations of the Organizations and 
applicable under the governing cost principles; (B) that the same costs that 
have been treated as indirect costs are not claimed as direct costs; ? that 
similar types of information which are provided by the Organization, and which 
were used as a basis for acceptance of rates agreed to herein, are not 
subsequently found to be materially incomplete or inaccurate; and (D) that 
similar types of costs have been accorded consistent accounting treatment.

ACCOUNTING CHANGES: If a fixed or predetermined rate is in this Agreement, it is 
based on the accounting system purported by the institution to be in effect 
during the Agreement period. Changes to the method of accounting for costs which 
affect the amount of reimbursement resulting from the use of the Agreement 
require prior approval of the authorized representative of the cognizant agency. 
Such changes include, but are not limited to, changes in the charging of a 
particular type of costs from indirect to direct. Failure to obtain approval may 
result in cost disallowance.

FIXED RATES: If a fixed rate is in this Agreement, it is based on an estimate of 
the costs for the period covered by the rate. When the actual costs for this 
period are determined, an adjustment will be made to a rate of a future year(s) 
to compensate for the difference between the costs used to establish the fixed 
rate and actual costs.

NOTIFICATION OF OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES: Copies of this document may be provided 
to other Federal agencies as a means of notifying them of the agreement 
contained herein.

OTHER: If any Federal contract, grant or other agreement is reimbursing indirect 
costs by a means other than the approved rate(s) in this Agreement, the 
institution should (1) credit such costs to the affected programs, and (2) apply 
the approved rate(s) to the appropriate base to identify the proper amount of 
indirect costs allocable to these programs.


 
 
 
ORGANIZATION: EMPORIA STATE UNIVERSITY Page 03 

SECTION III - Special Remarks

1. This agreement is effective on the date of approval of the Federal 
Government.
2.	Questions regarding this agreement should be directed to the Negotiator.
3.	Approval of the rate(s) contained herein does not establish acceptance of 
the State Education Agency?s 	total methodology for the computation of indirect 
cost rates for years other than the year(s) herein cited.

SECTION IV - Approvals

By the Institution :                         For the Federal Government:
Emporia State University                     U.S. Department of Education
1200 Commercial                              400 Maryland Avenue, SW
Emporia, Kansas 66801-5087                   Room 4W101, FOB #6
                                             Washington, DC 20202-4201
		 
Signature                                    Signature

                                             Richard T. Mueller 
Name                                         Name

                                             Chief, Indirect Cost Group 
Title                                        Title

                                             January 26, 1999 
Date                                         Date	

                                             Richard Koris 	
                                             Negotiator

                                             (202) 708-8604 	
                                             Telephone Number
