CllgWI St. Norbert College 1390806336A1 7/25/00!9072

                     INDIRECT COST RATE AGREEMENT
                       COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY
 
ORGANIZATION:
St. Norbert College
100 Grand Street
De Pere, Wisconsin 54115-2099
 
DATE: July 25, 2000 

AGREEMENT NO. 99-072 (A) 
FILING REFERENCE: This replaces 
previous Agreement No. 99-072 
dated September 29, 1999 

The rate(s) approved in this Agreement are for use in your grants, contracts, 
and other agreements with the Federal Government.

This agreement consists of four parts: Section I - Rates and Bases; Section II - 
Particulars; Section III - Special Remarks; and, Section IV - Approvals.

Section I - Rate(s) and Base(s)

Effective Period Coverage 

TYPE         From    To       Rate  Base Location Applicability
Provisional 06-01-99 05-31-00 50.79% 1/    All         2/
Provisional 06-01-00 09-30-00 48.25% 1/    All 	       2/

1/	Salaries and wages including applicable fringe benefits.

2/	Federal Agency Government Grants and Contracts.

Treatment of Fringe Benefits: Fringe benefits applicable to direct salaries and 
wages are treated as direct costs.

 
 
 
 

ORGANIZATION: ST. NOBERT COLLEGE 		Page 02

Section II - Particulars 

SCOPE: The indirect cost rate(s) contained herein are for use with grants, 
contracts, and other financial assistance agreements awarded by the Federal 
Government to the St. Norbert College and subject to OMB circular A-122.

LIMITATIONS: Application of the rate(s) contained in this Agreement is subject 
to all statutory or administrative limitations on the use of funds, and payment 
of costs hereunder are subject to the availability of appropriations applicable 
to a given grant or contract. Acceptance of the rate(s) agreed to herein is 
predicated on the conditions: (A) that no costs other than those incurred by St. 
Norbert College were included in the indirect cost pools as finally accepted, 
and that such costs are legal obligations of the Organization and applicable 
under the governing cost principles; (B) that the same costs that have been 
treated as indirect costs are not claimed as direct costs; (c) that similar 
types of information which are provided by the Organization, and which were used 
as a basis for acceptance of rates agreed to herein, are not subsequently found 
to be materially incomplete or inaccurate; and (D) that similar types of costs 
have been accorded consistent accounting treatment.

ACCOUNTING CHANGES: Fixed or predetermined rates contained in this Agreement are 
based on the accounting system in effect at the time the Agreement was 
negotiated. When changes to the method of accounting for cost affect the amount 
of reimbursement resulting from the use of these rates, the changes will require 
the prior approval of the authorized representative of the cognizant negotiation 
agency. Such changes include, but are not limited to, changing a particular type 
of cost from an indirect to a direct charge. Failure to obtain such approval may 
result in subsequent cost disallowances.

FIXED RATE: If a fixed rate is in this Agreement, it is based on an estimate of 
the costs for the period covered by the rate. When the actual costs for this 
period are determined, an adjustment will be made to a rate of a future year(s) 
to compensate for the difference between the cost used to establish the fixed 
rate and actual costs.

NOTIFICATION TO OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES: Copies of this document may be provided 
to other Federal agencies as a means of notifying them of the agreement 
contained herein.

OTHER: If any Federal contract, grant or other agreement is reimbursing indirect 
costs by a means other than the approved rate(s) in this Agreement, the 
institution should (1) credit such as costs to the affected programs, and (2) 
apply the approved rates(s) to the appropriate base to identify the proper 
amount of indirect costs allocable to these programs. 

ORGANIZATION: ST. NORBERT COLLEGE 		 Page 03
 
Section III - Special Remarks 

1. This Agreement is effective on the date of approval be the Federal 
Government.
2.	Questions regarding this Agreement should be directed to the Negotiator.
3.	Approval of the rate(s) contained herein does not establish acceptance of 
the Organization's total methodology for the computation of indirect cost rates 
for years other than the year(s) herein cited.

Section IV - Approvals 

For the College or University:
St. Norbert College
100 Grant Street
De Pere, Wisconsin 54115-2099

 
Signature

Name

Title

Date
 
 
 
For the Federal Government:
U.S. Department of Education
FOB 6, Room 4W103
400 Maryland Avenue, SW
Washington, DC 20202-4201
 
Signature

Richard T. Mueller 
Name

Chief, Indirect Cost Group _ 
Title

July 25, 2000 
Date

Linda Feeney 
Negotiator

(202) 708-6820 
Telephone
