CllgIL South Suburban College 1362597699A1 12/15/99!9077

                 INDIRECT COST RATE AGREEMENT
                    COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY
 
ORGANIZATION:
South Suburban College
15800 S. State Street
South Holland, IL 60473 
 
 
DATE: December 15, 1999 
 
AGREEMENT NO. 99-077 
FILING REFERENCE: This replaces previous 
Agreement No. N/A dated N/A 

The purpose of this Agreement is to establish indirect cost rates for use in 
awarding and managing of Federal contracts, grants, and other assistance 
arrangements to which Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-122 
applies. This agreement is issued by the U.S. Department of Education pursuant 
to the authority cited in Attachment A of OMB Circular A-21.

This Agreement consists of four parts: Section I - Rates and Bases; Section II - 
Particulars; Section III - Special Remarks; and, Section IV -Approvals.

Section I - Rate(s) and Base(s)

Effective Period Coverage 

TYPE        From     To       Rate Base Location Applicability
Provisional 07-01-99 06-30-00 30.8% 1/    All    Restricted Programs 
Provisional 07-01-99 06-30-00 61.7% 2/    All    Unrestricted Programs
 
1/	Total direct costs less items of equipment, capital expenditures, 
alterations and renovations, and individual subawards and subcontracts in excess 
of $25,000. Items of equipment are capitalized if the initial acquisition cost 
is in excess of $500 and the useful life is in excess of five years.

2/	Direct salaries, wages, and fringe benefits.

Treatment of Fringe Benefits: Fringe benefits applicable to direct salaries and 
wages are treated as direct costs.


 
 
ORGANIZATION: SOUTH SUBURBAN COLLEGE 					Page 02

Section II - Particulars 

SCOPE: The indirect cost rate(s) contained herein are for use with grants, 
contracts, and other financial assistance agreements awarded by the Federal 
Government to the South Suburban College and subject to OMB circular A-21.

LIMITATIONS: Application of the rate(s) contained in this Agreement is subject 
to all statutory or administrative limitations on the use of funds, and payment 
of costs hereunder are subject to the availability of appropriations applicable 
to a given grant or contract. Acceptance of the rate(s) agreed to herein is 
predicated on the conditions: (A) that no costs other than those incurred by 
South Surburban College were included in the indirect cost pools as finally 
accepted, and that such costs are legal obligations of the Organization and 
applicable under the governing cost principles; (B) that the same costs that 
have been treated as indirect costs are not claimed as direct costs; (c) that 
similar types of information which are provided by the Organization, and which 
were used as a basis for acceptance of rates agreed to herein, are not 
subsequently found to be materially incomplete or inaccurate; and (D) that 
similar types of costs have been accorded consistent accounting treatment.

ACCOUNTING CHANGES: Fixed or predetermined rates contained in this Agreement are 
based on the accounting system in effect at the time the Agreement was 
negotiated. When changes to the method of accounting for cost affect the amount 
of reimbursement resulting from the use of these rates, the changes will require 
the prior approval of the authorized representative of the cognizant negotiation 
agency. Such changes include, but are not limited to, changing a particular type 
of cost from an indirect to a direct charge. Failure to obtain such approval may 
result in subsequent cost disallowances.

FIXED RATE: The negotiated rate is based on an estimate of the costs which will 
be incurred during the period to which the rate applies. When the actual costs 
for such period have been determined, an adjustment will be made in a subsequent 
negotiation to compensate for the difference between the cost used to establish 
the fixed rate and the actual costs.

NOTIFICATION TO OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES: Copies of this document may be provided 
to other Federal agencies as a means of notifying them of the agreement 
contained herein.

AUDIT: If a rate in this Agreement contains amounts from a cost allocation plan, 
future audit adjustments which affect this cost allocation plan will be 
compensated for during the rate approval process of a subsequent year.

 
 
 
ORGANIZATION: SOUTH SUBURBAN COLLEGE Page 03
 
Section III - Special Remarks 

1. This Agreement is effective on the date of approval be the Federal 
Government.
2.	Questions regarding this Agreement should be directed to the Negotiator.
3.	Approval of the rate(s) contained herein does not establish acceptance of 
the Organization's total methodology for the computation of indirect cost rates 
for years other than the year(s) herein cited.

Section IV - Approvals 

For the College or University:
South Suburban College
15800 S. State Street
South Holland, IL 60473
 
  
Signature

Name

Title

Date
 
 
 
 
For the Federal Government:

U.S. Department of Education
FOB 6, Room 4W103
400 Maryland Avenue, SW
Washington, DC 20202-4201
 
Signature

Richard T. Mueller 
Name

Chief, Indirect Cost Group _ 
Title

December 15, 1999 
Date

Ronald Goolsby 
Negotiator

(312) 353-3724 
Telephone
